                  IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
      - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
TOWN OF GREECE, NEW YORK,
Petitioner
:
:     No. 12-696
                  v.                                    :
SUSAN GALLOWAY, ET AL.                    :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, November 6, 2013
                             The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:04 a.m.
      APPEARANCES:
THOMAS G. HUNGAR, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Petitioner.
IAN H. GERSHENGORN, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for United
States, as amicus curiae, supporting Petitioner.
DOUGLAS LAYCOCK, ESQ., Charlottesville, Virginia; on
behalf of Respondents.
C O N T E N T S  
ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                                     PAGE  
THOMAS G. HUNGAR, ESQ.  
On behalf of the Petitioner                                   3  
ORAL ARGUMENT OF  
IAN H. GERSHENGORN, ESQ.  
For United States, as amicus curiae,  
supporting the Petitioner                                      19  
ORAL ARGUMENT OF  
DOUGLAS LAYCOCK, ESQ.  
On behalf of the Respondents                                 29  
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF  
THOMAS G. HUNGAR, ESQ.  
On behalf of the Petitioner                                   56  
                                    P R O C E E D I N G S  
                                                              (10:04 a.m.)  
                          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:    We'll hear argument  
      first this morning in case 12-696, the Town of  
      Greece v. Galloway.  
                          Mr. Hungar.  
                          ORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS G. HUNGAR  
                               ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER  
                          MR. HUNGAR:    Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,  
      and may it please the Court:  
                          The court of appeals correctly held that the  
      legislative prayers at issue in this case were not  
      offensive in the way identified as problematic in Marsh,  
      but the court then committed legal error by engrafting  
      the endorsement test onto Marsh as a new barrier to the  
      practice of legislative prayer.  
                          JUSTICE KAGAN:    Mr. Hungar, I'm wondering  
      what you would think of the following:    Suppose that as  
      we began this session of the Court, the Chief Justice  
      had called a minister up to the front of the courtroom,  
      facing the lawyers, maybe the parties, maybe the  
      spectators.    And the minister had asked everyone to  
      stand and to bow their heads in prayer and the minister  
      said the following:    He said, we acknowledge the saving  
      sacrifice of Jesus Christ on the cross.    We draw  
      strength from His resurrection.    Blessed are you who has  
      raised up the Lord Jesus.    You who will raise us in our  
      turn and put us by His side.    The members of the Court  
      who had stood responded amen, made the sign of the  
      cross, and the Chief Justice then called your case.  
                          Would that be permissible?  
                          MR. HUNGAR:    I don't think so, Your Honor.  
      And, obviously, this case doesn't present that question  
      because what we have here is a case of legislative  
      prayer in the Marsh doctrine, which recognizes that the  
      history of this country from its very foundations and  
      founding, recognize the propriety of legislative prayer  
      of the type that was conducted here.  
                          JUSTICE GINSBURG:    Well, the question -
                          JUSTICE KAGAN:    The extension just between  
      the legislature and any other official proceeding; is  
      that correct?  
                          MR. HUNGAR:    Well, clearly, Marsh involves  
      legislative prayer, the tradition that we rely on  
      involves legislative prayer, and this case involves  
      legislative prayer.    Whether -- what rule might apply in  
      other contexts would depend on the context.  
                          JUSTICE KAGAN:    Suppose I ask the exact same  
      question, same kinds of statements, same sort of  
      context, except it's not in a courtroom.    Instead, it's  
      in a congressional hearing room.    Maybe it's a  
      confirmation hearing, maybe it's an investigatory  
      hearing of some kind, and that a person is sitting at a  
      table in front of the members of a committee, ready to  
      testify, ready to give his testimony in support of his  
      nomination.    The minister says the exact same thing.  
                          MR. HUNGAR:    I think that's a -- that's a  
      closer question because of the congressional history,  
      but, of course, at least as far as I'm aware, they have  
      this history as it applies to the legislative body as a  
      whole, not to committees, but it would be a different  
      question.    One, obviously, important distinguishing  
      factor there, in addition to the fact that it's not the  
      legislative body as a whole -
                          JUSTICE SCALIA:    We should -- we should -
                          MR. HUNGAR:    -- is that people are compelled  
      to attend and testify under oath, which is a different  
      situation from the one here.  
                          JUSTICE KAGAN:    Well, why -
                          JUSTICE SCALIA:    We should assume -- to, to  
      make it parallel to what occurred here that the next day  
      before the same committee a Muslim would lead the  
      invocation and the day after that an orthodox Jew.    I  
      mean -
                          MR. HUNGAR:    Yes, Your Honor.  
                          JUSTICE SCALIA:    -- it makes a difference  
      whether it's just one -- one denomination that is being  
      used as -- as chaplain or open to various denominations.  
                          MR. HUNGAR:    That's correct, Your Honor.  
      That's why we believe this case is actually an easier  
      case than Marsh because in Marsh, there was a paid  
      chaplain from the same denomination for 16 years.  
                          JUSTICE GINSBURG:    But the question,  
      Mr. Hungar -
                          JUSTICE KAGAN:    Suppose you are correct, Mr.  
      Hungar, for 11 years the prayers sounded almost  
      exclusively like the ones that I read, and one year on  
      four occasions, there was some attempts to vary it up,  
      to have a Baha'i minister or a -- a Wiccan, but for the  
      most part, not out of any malice or anything like that,  
      but because this is what the people in this community  
      knew and were familiar with and what most of the  
      ministers were, most of the prayers sounded like this.  
                          MR. HUNGAR:    Well, no.    I mean, it's clearly  
      not correct that most of the prayers sounded like the  
      one you just read.  
                          JUSTICE GINSBURG:    But your position is that  
      wouldn't matter, as I understand, because you have -
      you have -- you have two limitations, proselytizing and  
      disparaging.    And -- but I think Justice Kagan's  
      question just set place -- place limitations.    One could  
      read your brief and say, well, it doesn't matter; it  
      could be an executive body, it could be a court, it  
      could be a town meeting, a school board, a zoning board,  
      a utilities board.    That's -- is this case about prayer  
      at the beginning of a legislative session or is it about  
      prayer in all three branches of government?  
                          MR. HUNGAR:    This case is about prayer at  
      the beginning of a legislative session.    That's exactly  
      what the meetings at issue here are -- are about.  
      That's what the board of the Town of Greece is.    In  
      fact, Respondents try to argue that this is somehow what  
      they call coercive because there are public hearings  
      that are held.    But the public hearings are held at  
      least 30 minutes after the prayer and anyone coming for  
      the purpose of the public hearing can easily show up  
      after the prayer if they don't want to be there.  
                          JUSTICE KENNEDY:    Why -- why was it that you  
      so promptly answered Justice Kagan's question to the  
      effect that this would be a violation?    What/why would  
      there be a violation in the instance she put?  
