                  IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
      - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
TOWN OF GREECE, NEW YORK,
Petitioner
:
:     No. 12-696
                  v.                                    :
SUSAN GALLOWAY, ET AL.                    :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, November 6, 2013
                             The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:04 a.m.
      APPEARANCES:
THOMAS G. HUNGAR, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Petitioner.
IAN H. GERSHENGORN, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for United
States, as amicus curiae, supporting Petitioner.
DOUGLAS LAYCOCK, ESQ., Charlottesville, Virginia; on
behalf of Respondents.
C O N T E N T S  
ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                                     PAGE  
THOMAS G. HUNGAR, ESQ.  
On behalf of the Petitioner                                   3  
ORAL ARGUMENT OF  
IAN H. GERSHENGORN, ESQ.  
For United States, as amicus curiae,  
supporting the Petitioner                                      19  
ORAL ARGUMENT OF  
DOUGLAS LAYCOCK, ESQ.  
On behalf of the Respondents                                 29  
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF  
THOMAS G. HUNGAR, ESQ.  
On behalf of the Petitioner                                   56  
  
                                    P R O C E E D I N G S  
                                                              (10:04 a.m.)  
                          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:    We'll hear argument  
      first this morning in case 12-696, the Town of  
      Greece v. Galloway.  
                          Mr. Hungar.  
                          ORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS G. HUNGAR  
                               ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER  
                          MR. HUNGAR:    Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,  
      and may it please the Court:  
                          The court of appeals correctly held that the  
      legislative prayers at issue in this case were not  
      offensive in the way identified as problematic in Marsh,  
      but the court then committed legal error by engrafting  
      the endorsement test onto Marsh as a new barrier to the  
      practice of legislative prayer.  
                          JUSTICE KAGAN:    Mr. Hungar, I'm wondering  
      what you would think of the following:    Suppose that as  
      we began this session of the Court, the Chief Justice  
      had called a minister up to the front of the courtroom,  
      facing the lawyers, maybe the parties, maybe the  
      spectators.    And the minister had asked everyone to  
      stand and to bow their heads in prayer and the minister  
      said the following:    He said, we acknowledge the saving  
      sacrifice of Jesus Christ on the cross.    We draw  
      strength from His resurrection.    Blessed are you who has  
      raised up the Lord Jesus.    You who will raise us in our  
      turn and put us by His side.    The members of the Court  
      who had stood responded amen, made the sign of the  
      cross, and the Chief Justice then called your case.  
                          Would that be permissible?  
                          MR. HUNGAR:    I don't think so, Your Honor.  
      And, obviously, this case doesn't present that question  
      because what we have here is a case of legislative  
      prayer in the Marsh doctrine, which recognizes that the  
      history of this country from its very foundations and  
      founding, recognize the propriety of legislative prayer  
      of the type that was conducted here.  
                          JUSTICE GINSBURG:    Well, the question -
                          JUSTICE KAGAN:    The extension just between  
      the legislature and any other official proceeding; is  
      that correct?  
                          MR. HUNGAR:    Well, clearly, Marsh involves  
      legislative prayer, the tradition that we rely on  
      involves legislative prayer, and this case involves  
      legislative prayer.    Whether -- what rule might apply in  
      other contexts would depend on the context.  
                          JUSTICE KAGAN:    Suppose I ask the exact same  
      question, same kinds of statements, same sort of  
      context, except it's not in a courtroom.    Instead, it's  
      in a congressional hearing room.    Maybe it's a  
      confirmation hearing, maybe it's an investigatory  
      hearing of some kind, and that a person is sitting at a  
      table in front of the members of a committee, ready to  
      testify, ready to give his testimony in support of his  
      nomination.    The minister says the exact same thing.  
                          MR. HUNGAR:    I think that's a -- that's a  
      closer question because of the congressional history,  
      but, of course, at least as far as I'm aware, they have  
      this history as it applies to the legislative body as a  
      whole, not to committees, but it would be a different  
      question.    One, obviously, important distinguishing  
      factor there, in addition to the fact that it's not the  
      legislative body as a whole -
                          JUSTICE SCALIA:    We should -- we should -
                          MR. HUNGAR:    -- is that people are compelled  
      to attend and testify under oath, which is a different  
      situation from the one here.  
                          JUSTICE KAGAN:    Well, why -
                          JUSTICE SCALIA:    We should assume -- to, to  
      make it parallel to what occurred here that the next day  
      before the same committee a Muslim would lead the  
      invocation and the day after that an orthodox Jew.    I  
      mean -
                          MR. HUNGAR:    Yes, Your Honor.  
  
                          JUSTICE SCALIA:    -- it makes a difference  
      whether it's just one -- one denomination that is being  
      used as -- as chaplain or open to various denominations.  
                          MR. HUNGAR:    That's correct, Your Honor.  
      That's why we believe this case is actually an easier  
      case than Marsh because in Marsh, there was a paid  
      chaplain from the same denomination for 16 years.  
                          JUSTICE GINSBURG:    But the question,  
      Mr. Hungar -
                          JUSTICE KAGAN:    Suppose you are correct, Mr.  
      Hungar, for 11 years the prayers sounded almost  
      exclusively like the ones that I read, and one year on  
      four occasions, there was some attempts to vary it up,  
      to have a Baha'i minister or a -- a Wiccan, but for the  
      most part, not out of any malice or anything like that,  
      but because this is what the people in this community  
      knew and were familiar with and what most of the  
      ministers were, most of the prayers sounded like this.  
                          MR. HUNGAR:    Well, no.    I mean, it's clearly  
      not correct that most of the prayers sounded like the  
      one you just read.  
                          JUSTICE GINSBURG:    But your position is that  
      wouldn't matter, as I understand, because you have -
      you have -- you have two limitations, proselytizing and  
      disparaging.    And -- but I think Justice Kagan's  
      question just set place -- place limitations.    One could  
      read your brief and say, well, it doesn't matter; it  
      could be an executive body, it could be a court, it  
      could be a town meeting, a school board, a zoning board,  
      a utilities board.    That's -- is this case about prayer  
      at the beginning of a legislative session or is it about  
      prayer in all three branches of government?  
                          MR. HUNGAR:    This case is about prayer at  
      the beginning of a legislative session.    That's exactly  
      what the meetings at issue here are -- are about.  
      That's what the board of the Town of Greece is.    In  
      fact, Respondents try to argue that this is somehow what  
      they call coercive because there are public hearings  
      that are held.    But the public hearings are held at  
      least 30 minutes after the prayer and anyone coming for  
      the purpose of the public hearing can easily show up  
      after the prayer if they don't want to be there.  
                          JUSTICE KENNEDY:    Why -- why was it that you  
      so promptly answered Justice Kagan's question to the  
      effect that this would be a violation?    What/why would  
      there be a violation in the instance she put?  
                          MR. HUNGAR:    I'm sorry.    Which instance,  
      Your Honor?  
                          JUSTICE KENNEDY:    The first question Justice  
      Kagan asked you, the hypothetical about the prayer in  
      this Court.    You seemed readily to agree that that would  
      be a First Amendment violation.    Why?  
                          MR. HUNGAR:    Well, perhaps I conceded too  
      much, but I think the important distinction is between  
      the -- both the judicial context and the legislative  
      context on the one hand and the -- the absence of a -
      of a comparable history that shows that it did not -
                          JUSTICE KENNEDY:    Well, is it -- is it  
      simply history that makes -- there's no rational  
      explanation?    It's just a historical aberration?  
                          MR. HUNGAR:    No, it's not -- it's not a  
      question of historical aberration.    It's a question  
      of -
                          JUSTICE KENNEDY:    Well, what's -- what's the  
      justification for the distinction?  
                          MR. HUNGAR:    It's a question of what the  
      Establishment Clause has understood, both at the time  
      and throughout history, to forbid and not to forbid.  
      The judiciary is different than a legislature.  
      Legislatures can be partisan, the judiciary should not  
      be.    People are compelled to testify under oath.  
                          JUSTICE SCALIA:    But you -- but you -- you  
      had no problem, Mr. Hungar, with the marshal's  
      announcement at the -- at the beginning of this session.  
      God save the United States and this Honorable Court.  
      There -- there are many people who don't believe in God.  
                          MR. HUNGAR:    That's correct, Your Honor.  
      And clearly -
                          JUSTICE SCALIA:    So that's okay?  
                          MR. HUNGAR:    Yes.  
                          JUSTICE SCALIA:    Why -- why is that okay?  
                          MR. HUNGAR:    Whether -- if -- perhaps I  
      misunderstood the hypothetical.    If the hypothetical is  
      as you described with a different minister, with -- with  
      an open process, a nondiscriminatory process like the  
      one we have here, I think it would be a much closer case  
      than this one, but it might be constitutional.    But  
      whether that case is constitutional or not, this case is  
      far from the constitutional line, further from the  
      constitutional line than the State legislature's  
      practice in Marsh.    Because there, Nebraska had one  
      chaplain from one denomination for 16 years and yet,  
      that was constitutionally permissible, and his prayers  
      were not distinguishable in content from the prayers at  
      issue here during the time that was relevant to the  
      case.  
                          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:    Would it make a  
      difference in your analysis if instead of, as I  
      understand the hypothetical, there was a point of  
      saying, all rise or something of that sort?    Would it  
      make a difference if the hypothetical Justice Kagan  
      posed were the same except people weren't told to rise  
      or invited to rise or, in fact, were told to stay  
      seated, something like that, so there would be no  
      indication of who was participating in the prayer?    Is  
      that a -- is that a ground of distinction that you're  
      willing to accept or not?  
                          MR. HUNGAR:    I don't think that is  
      constitutionally significant, unless -- I mean, it might  
      be different if people are compelled to stand, but  
      whether they are or not -- I mean, in the Marsh case  
      itself, Senator Chambers testified that the practice in  
      the Nebraska legislature was for people to stand and he  
      felt coerced to stand.    Because when he was there -- he  
      tried to avoid it -- but when he was there, he felt he  
      needed to stand because everybody else was doing it and  
      he needed to have dealings with these people as a fellow  
      legislator.  
                          The Court, nonetheless, held that he's an  
      adult and he -- he is expected to be able to disagree  
      with things that he disagrees with and that is not a  
      constitutional violation.  
                          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:    I wonder how far you  
      can carry the -- your historical argument and whether  
      some of these things are properly regarded as more  
  
      historical artifacts, right?    I mean, our motto is "In  
      God we trust," right?    That's the motto.    It's been that  
      for a long time, right?  
                          MR. HUNGAR:    Yes, sir.  
                          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:    But wouldn't we look  
      at it differently if there were -- suddenly if there  
      were a proposal today for the first time, to say let's  
      adopt a motto "In God we trust"?    Would we view that the  
      same way simply because it's -- in other words, the  
      history doesn't make it clear that a particular practice  
      is okay going on in the future.    It means, well, this is  
      what they've done -- they have done, so we're not going  
      to go back and revisit it.    Just like we're not going to  
      go back and take the cross out of every city seal that's  
      been there since, you know, 1800.    But it doesn't mean  
      that it would be okay to adopt a seal today that would  
      have a cross in it, does it?  
                          MR. HUNGAR:    Not necessarily.    But -- but I  
      think history is clearly important to the Establishment  
      Clause analysis under this Court's precedence in two  
      significant respects, both of which apply here, one of  
      which might not apply in your -- with respect to your  
      hypothetical.  
                          The first being the history shows us that  
      the practice of legislative prayer, just like the motto,  
      has not, in fact, led to an establishment and,  
      therefore, we can be confident it is not in danger of  
      doing so.    And secondly, the history of legislative  
      prayer, unlike your hypothetical, goes back to the very  
      framing of the First Amendment.    The fact that -- then  
      this is what the Court said in Marsh -- the fact that at  
      the very time the First Congress was writing and sending  
      the -- the First Amendment out to the States to be  
      ratified, they adopted the practice of having a  
      congressional chaplain.    And the congressional  
      chaplain -- the record -- the historical record is  
      clear -- gave prayers that were almost exclusively  
      sectarian, as Respondents define that word.  
                          JUSTICE SCALIA:    I don't really understand  
      your -- your answer.    How can it be that if the practice  
      existed in the past, it was constitutional?    Was it  
      constitutional in the past?  
                          MR. HUNGAR:    Yes, Your Honor.  
                          JUSTICE SCALIA:    If it was constitutional in  
      the past, why -- why would it be unconstitutional if the  
      same thing is done today, even without any past parallel  
      practice.    That's a nice alliteration.    Is past parallel  
      practice essential?  
                          MR. HUNGAR:    I think this Court's precedents  
      have also indicated, at least in some cases, that if --  
      if a practice is constitutional, as we know it to be the  
      case because of the fact that it has been understood to  
      be constitutional and consistent with our religion  
      clauses from the founding, other practices that have no  
      greater impact, no greater tendency to establish  
      religion, are equally constitutional.    And we believe  
      that is an appropriate doctrine.  
                          JUSTICE GINSBURG:    Is there -- is there any  
      constitutional historical practice with respect to this  
      hybrid body?    It's not simply a legislature.    It has a  
      number of administrative functions.    Sometimes it  
      convenes as a town meeting.    Sometimes it entertains  
      zoning applications.    Is there a history for that kind  
      of hybrid body, as there is for the kind of legislature  
      we had in Nebraska or our Congress?  
                          MR. HUNGAR:    Yes, Your Honor, in two  
      respects.    First of all, the Becket Fund amicus brief  
      identifies various examples of -- of municipal  
      government prayer over the course of our founding, which  
      is -- over the course of our history, which is not  
      surprising given this -- the legislative practice at the  
      State and Federal level as well.  
                          And secondly, Congress for much of its -- of  
      much of our history entertained private bills, which  
      would be the equivalent in terms of legislative or  
  
      non-purely legislative functions you're talking about,  
      with what the Town of Greece does here.  
                          JUSTICE KENNEDY:    Well, if we had a -- if we  
      had a series of cases, what -- what is a -- a utility  
      rate-making board would come to the Supreme Court.    We  
      say, well, it's enough like a legislative that it's like  
      Marsh.    But I don't think the public would understand  
      that.  
                          MR. HUNGAR:    Well, Your Honor, whatever -
      whatever line might be drawn between non-legislative  
      bodies and legislative bodies, what we are talking about  
      here is a legislative meeting of a legislative body, and  
      it would be -- it would be incongruous, as this Court  
      said in Marsh, if Congress could have legislative  
      prayers and the States couldn't.    It would be equally  
      incongruous -
                          JUSTICE KENNEDY:    Well, the essence of the  
      argument is we've always done it this way, which has  
      some -- some force to it.    But it seems to me that your  
      argument begins and ends there.  
                          MR. HUNGAR:    No, Your Honor.    I mean, as  
      we -- as we said in our brief, the principles that  
      undergird the Establishment Clause are equally  
      consistent with the position we're advancing here.    As  
      the -- as your opinion in the County of Allegheny case  
  
      indicates, the fundamental -- the core of Establishment  
      Clause concern is coercion or conduct that is so extreme  
      that it leads to the establishment of a religion because  
      it is putting the government squarely behind one faith  
      to the exclusion of others, and that's clearly not -
      not what's going on here.  
                          JUSTICE ALITO:    May I ask you about the  
      individual plaintiffs here.    And what do we know about  
      them?    They obviously have appeared at proceedings and  
      they object to the proceedings.    Does the record show  
      that they had matters before the town council during the  
      hearings part of the proceeding?  
                          MR. HUNGAR:    No, Your Honor.    There is -
      there's no evidence of that.    There's no -- the  
      Respondents have no standing to assert the interests of  
      children or police officers or award recipients or -- or  
      permit applicants.    They don't even claim to be in -- in  
      any of those categories.  
                          JUSTICE ALITO:    Well, what about the public  
      forum part?    They did speak occasionally then; isn't  
      that right?  
                          MR. HUNGAR:    Yes, Your Honor.  
                          JUSTICE ALITO:    Do we know what they spoke  
      about?  
                          MR. HUNGAR:    Well, on at least one occasion  
  
      one of them spoke about the prayer -- or on one or two  
      occasions; and then on multiple occasions spoke about a  
      cable access channel issue.  
                          JUSTICE ALITO:    And what did they -- what  
      was the issue there?  
                          MR. HUNGAR:    Something about -- she was  
      expressing vehement disagreement with the town's  
      decision to award a cable access channel to one entity  
      as opposed to another.  
                          JUSTICE BREYER:    Do you have any objection  
      to -- to doing one thing that was suggested in the  
      circuit court opinion, which is to publicize rather  
      thoroughly in -- in the area that those who were not  
      Christians, and perhaps not even religious, are also  
      welcome to appear and to have either a prayer or the  
      equivalent if they're not religious?    Do you have an  
      objection to that?  
                          MR. HUNGAR:    Certainly not.    There'd be -
                          JUSTICE BREYER:    Well, then -- then there -
      is there a disagreement on that point, because  
      certainly, that was one of the concerns.    It wasn't on  
      anyone's website.    There are -- Greece is a small town  
      very near Rochester, and there are, at least in  
      Rochester, lots of people of different religions,  
      including quite a few of no religion.  
                          So -- so could you work that out, do you  
      think, if that were the only objecting point?  
                          MR. HUNGAR:    I -- I don't know what the  
      town's position would be on that, but it -- certainly,  
      there would be no constitutional problem with doing  
      that.    I mean, here as a practical matter, since -
                          JUSTICE BREYER:    No, no.    I'm not saying  
      it's a constitutional problem I got from the opinion of  
      doing the opposite, of -- of not making an effort to  
      make people who are not Christian feel, although they  
      live near in or near the town or are affected thereby,  
      participants over time.  
                          MR. HUNGAR:    But, Your Honor, it's a  
      perfectly rational approach when -- when any legislative  
      body is going to have a practice of legislative prayer,  
      to go to the houses of worship in the community.  
                          JUSTICE BREYER:    I'm not saying it's not.    I  
      want to know if you have any objection.    I -
                          MR. HUNGAR:    Well, I certainly don't think  
      it is constitutionally required, although I would note  
      that as a practical matter that has happened here in  
      2007.  
                          JUSTICE BREYER:    Do you -- would you have -
      if all that were left in the case were the question of  
      you're making a good faith effort to try to include  
      others, would you object to doing it?  
                          MR. HUNGAR:    I don't know what the town's  
      position is on that.    As I said, as a practical matter,  
      that has already happened here.    The town deputy  
      supervisor was quoted in the newspaper saying anyone can  
      come in prayer, anyone can -
                          JUSTICE BREYER:    Yes.    That's different from  
      putting it on a website.    That's different from making  
      an organized effort to see that people get the word.  
                          MR. HUNGAR:    As I say -
                          JUSTICE SCALIA:    Mr. Hungar, what -- what is  
      the equivalent of prayer for somebody who is not  
      religious?  
                          MR. HUNGAR:    I would -
                          JUSTICE SCALIA:    What would somebody who is  
      not religious -
                          MR. HUNGAR:    In the Rubin -
                          JUSTICE SCALIA:    -- what is the equivalent  
      of prayer?  
                          MR. HUNGAR:    It would be some invocation of  
      guidance and wisdom from -
                          JUSTICE SCALIA:    From what?  
                          MR. HUNGAR:    I don't know.    In -- in the  
      Rubin case -
                          (Laughter.)  
                          MR. HUNGAR:    In the Rubin case, a  
      nonreligious person delivered invocations on multiple  
      occasions.  
                          JUSTICE SCALIA:    I suppose a moment -
                          JUSTICE BREYER:    Perhaps he's asking me that  
      question and I can answer it later.  
                          (Laughter.)  
                          MR. HUNGAR:    I'd like to reserve the  
      remainder of my time.  
                          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:    Yes.    Thank you,  
      counsel.  
                          Mr. Gershengorn.  
                            ARGUMENT OF IAN H. GERSHENGORN,  
                       FOR UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,  
                                 SUPPORTING THE PETITIONER  
                          MR. GERSHENGORN:    Mr. Chief Justice, and may  
      it please the Court:  
                          The Second Circuit's decision here requires  
      courts to determine when a legislature has permitted too  
      many sectarian references in its prayers or has invited  
      too many Christian prayer-givers.    That approach is  
      flawed for two reasons.  
                          First, it cannot be squared with our  
      nation's long history of opening legislative sessions  
      not only with a prayer, but a prayer given in the  
      prayer-giver's own religion idiom.    And second, it  
      invites exactly the sort of parsing of prayer that Marsh  
      sought to avoid and that Federal courts are ill-equipped  
      to handle.  
                          JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:    And what was the purpose  
      of Marsh saying that proselytizing or damning another  
      religion would be a constitutional violation?  
                          MR. GERSHENGORN:    So we agree with -
                          JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:    So unless you parse the  
      prayers, you can't determine whether there's  
      proselytizing or damnation.    That is Judge Wilkinson's  
      point when he was faced with this question, which is,  
      you have to, to do some parsing.  
                          MR. GERSHENGORN:    So, Your Honor, you have  
      to look at -- at the prayer to determine proselytizing.  
      But it's a very different series of judgments, we  
      submit, than determining whether something is sectarian.  
      The kinds of debates we're having, I think, are  
      reflected in the differences -
                          JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:    Now, seriously,  
      counselor.    You can't argue that the quote that Justice  
      Kagan read is not sectarian.    It invokes Jesus Christ as  
      the savior of the world.    There are many religions who  
      don't believe that.    Let's get past that.  
                          MR. GERSHENGORN:    So, Your Honor --  
                          JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:    This is sectarian.  
                          MR. GERSHENGORN:    We agree that these are  
      sectarian.    But the kinds of debates that you're seeing  
      among the parties, whether, for example, 15 percent, 50  
      percent, 60 percent of the congressional prayers are  
      sectarian.    Those are debates about whether "Holy  
      Spirit" is sectarian.    A court -- a district court has  
      held that "Allah" is not sectarian.  
                          JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:    So let's talk about the  
      context instead of prayer.    If the Chief Justice got up  
      at the beginning of this session and said "All rise for  
      a prayer," would you sit down?  
                          MR. GERSHENGORN:    Your Honor, whether I  
      would sit or not, we don't think that that would be  
      constitutional.  
                          JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:    Do you think -- how many  
      people in this room do you think would sit, talking  
      truthfully?  
                          MR. GERSHENGORN:    I don't think -- I don't  
      think many would sit, Your Honor.  
                          JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:    All right.  
                          M R. GERSHENGORN:    But we don't think that  
      that -
                          JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:    So why do you think that  
      someone who is sitting in a small room where hearings of  
      this nature are being held, when the guy who's about,  
      the chairman of this legislative body, is about to rule  
      on an application you're bringing to him or her, why do  
      you think any of those people wouldn't feel coerced to  
      stand?  
                          MR. GERSHENGORN:    So, Your Honor, I'd like  
      to address the coercion point this way:    With respect to  
      town councils, it's our view that as a general matter  
      that the municipal legislatures can invoke the same  
      tradition of solemnizing and invoking divine guidance as  
      Federal and State legislatures.    We recognize there are  
      differences, however, and Your Honor has pointed to one  
      and that's the -- what was called the public forum here.  
      And we think it's very -- because those are the ones  
      where the -- is adjudicated license applications, liquor  
      applications.    And we do think it is important on this  
      record that those are separated in time.    It's at the  
      court of appeals Appendix 929 and 1120.    So that the  
      meeting starts at 6:00, which is in the prayer -- when  
      the prayer is, but the board meetings to adjudicate  
      those types of issues are at 6:30 or 6:32.  
                          And so the type of concern that Your Honor  
      has raised is not presented on this record and we think  
      that's significant.    We think some of the other  
      factors --  
                          JUSTICE KAGAN:    Mr. Gershengorn, do you  
      think that if the legislature -- excuse me -- if the  
      town board here just, you know, started it off with a  
      prayer and then kept on going, do you think that that  
      would be a significantly different case and you would  
      switch sides?  
                          MR. GERSHENGORN:    I don't know that we would  
      switch sides, Your Honor.    But I do think it mitigates  
      the coercion that the -- that the Respondents have  
      identified.    And we think it -- that that is one of the  
      significant differences between the town, the -- the  
      town legislature and a -- and the legislature -
                          JUSTICE SCALIA:    You agree that coercion is  
      the test, however?  
                          MR. GERSHENGORN:    We don't agree that  
      coercion is the test, Your Honor.  
                          JUSTICE SCALIA:    If it is the test -
                          MR. GERSHENGORN:    We think it's the  
      history -- we think the history is the -- the principal  
      guidance of Marsh is -- we think there are three pillars  
      in Marsh:    First of all, that the history is what the  
      Court looks to first.    And here there was a long history  
      of legislative prayer.    Second, that the Court should be  
      very wary of parsing prayer to make sectarian judgments.  
      And third, what Marsh said is that adults are less  
  
      susceptible to religious doctrine -- indoctrination and  
      peer pressure.  
                          JUSTICE KAGAN:    Mr. Gershengorn, could you  
      respond to this?    Here's what our -- our country  
      promises, our Constitution promises.    It's that, however  
      we worship, we're all equal and full citizens.    And I  
      think we can all agree on that.  
                          And that means that when we approach the  
      government, when we petition the government, we do so  
      not as a Christian, not as a Jew, not as a Muslim, not  
      as a nonbeliever, only as an American.    And what  
      troubles me about this case is that here a citizen is  
      going to a local community board, supposed to be the  
      closest, the most responsive institution of government  
      that exists, and is immediately being asked, being  
      forced to identify whether she believes in the things  
      that most of the people in the room believe in, whether  
      she belongs to the same religious team as most of the  
      people in the room do.  
                          And it strikes me that that might be  
      inconsistent with this understanding that when we relate  
      to our government, we all do so as Americans, and not as  
      Jews and not as Christians and not as nonbelievers.  
                          MR. GERSHENGORN:    So, Justice Kagan, I think  
      we agree with much of what you say.    But -- but with the  
      difference here is that this approaching of the  
      government body occurs against the backdrop of 240 years  
      of history, which makes this different.  
                          From the very beginning of our legislature,  
      from the First Continental Congress, and then from  
      the -- from the first Congress, there have been  
      legislative prayers given in the religious idiom of  
      either the official chaplain or a guest chaplain, that  
      have regularly invoked the -- the deity and the -- the  
      language of the prayer-giver.    And that -
                          JUSTICE GINSBURG:    Mr. Gershengorn, your -
      your brief is the one who brought up -- and you were  
      quite candid about it -- the hybrid nature of that body.  
      I think it's on pages 22 to 24 of your brief.    And you  
      say it would be proper to have certain checks in that  
      setting.    So for one, make sure that the entrance and  
      the exit is easy.    For another, inform the people in  
      town of the tradition so they won't be confused.  
                  But you recognize on the one hand that this isn't  
      like Congress or the Nebraska legislature, and then you  
      say these would be nice things to do.    Are you saying  
      just that it would be good and proper or are you saying  
      it would be necessary given the hybrid nature of this  
      body?  
                          MR. GERSHENGORN:    So, Your Honor, with  
      respect to some of the things we identify which are  
      similar to the ones that Justice Breyer recommended, I  
      think our view is they're more akin to safe harbors,  
      that there are undoubtedly advancement challenges that  
      could be brought.    And to the extent that the town can  
      point to things such as -- such as public criteria and  
      things like that, that is helpful.  
                          With respect to the -- the public forum  
      aspect, I don't think we have a position as to whether  
      it is required, but we do think that that makes this  
      case the much easier case, because of that separation of  
      the one part that is the strongest argument for the  
      other side, that there is an element of coercion, that  
      your application is -- is being ruled on, that the  
      separation the town has adopted makes that much less  
      persuasive.  
                          We think the other elements that the  
      Respondents have pointed to for coercion are ones that  
      trouble us because they are things that have analogs in  
      our history.    So, for example, they point to the  
      presence of children.    But, of course, on the Senate  
      floor are the Senate pages, who are all high school  
      juniors.    And as the reply brief points out, there are  
      often children in the galleries at State legislatures  
      being acknowledged.    And so some of those -- those  
      elements that the Respondents have pointed to for  
      coercion we think are not ones that the Court should -
      should adopt.  
                          JUSTICE KENNEDY:    Of course, your -- your  
      test is whether or not -- part of your test -- is  
      whether or not it advances religion.    If you ask a  
      chaplain for the State assembly in Sacramento,  
      California, who's going to go to the assembly to deliver  
      a prayer, are you going to advance your religion today,  
      would he say oh, no?  
                          MR. GERSHENGORN:    So, Your Honor, I think  
      it's a much narrower test.    What this Court said in  
      Marsh was that the limit on legislative prayers is  
      prosle -- does it proselytize, advance, or denigrate any  
      one religion.    We think with respect to the content of  
      the prayer, that the Second Circuit got it just about  
      right, that the question is does it preach conversion,  
      does it threaten damnation to nonbelievers, does it  
      belittle a particular -
                          JUSTICE KENNEDY:    So -- so you -- you use  
      the word "advance" only as modified by "proselytize"?  
                          MR. GERSHENGORN:    What Marsh said was  
      "proselytize, advance, or denigrate."  
                          JUSTICE KENNEDY:    Because that's -- that's  
      not what your -- your brief says "does not proselytize  
  
      or advance."  
                          MR. GERSHENGORN:    That -- that's the  
      language from Marsh, Your Honor, is to proselytize or -
      "proselytize, advance, or denigrate."  
                          JUSTICE KENNEDY:    But that's that the test  
      you want us to adopt and -
                          MR. GERSHENGORN:    It is, Your Honor.  
                          JUSTICE KENNEDY:    -- I'm asking whether or  
      not it is, in fact, honest and candid and fair to ask  
      the minister or -- or the priest or the chaplain or the  
      rabbi if by appearing there, he or she seeks to advance  
      their religion?  
                          MR. GERSHENGORN:    So, Your Honor, I don't  
      think that's what Marsh meant by advance.  
                          JUSTICE KENNEDY:    If not, I'm not quite sure  
      why they're there.  
                          MR. GERSHENGORN:    You're not quite sure why  
      "advance" is there, or why the rabbi is there.    We don't  
      think that the mere presence of the rabbi -- that's what  
      Marsh held, that Marsh -- what Marsh says is "advance"  
      does not mean having a single -- a single chaplain -- a  
      chaplain of a single denomination or looking at the  
      content of the sectarian prayer in light of that  
      history.  
                          Thank you, Your Honor.  
  
                          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:    Thank you, counsel.  
                          Mr. Laycock.  
                          ORAL ARGUMENT OF DOUGLAS LAYCOCK  
                             ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    Mr. Chief Justice, and may it  
      please the Court:  
                          Petitioner's answer to Justice Kagan's  
      opening question is entirely formalistic.    There is no  
      separation in time between the public hearing and the  
      invocation.    People appear before this town board to ask  
      for personal and specific things.    Our clients put shows  
      on the cable channel.    They were concerned the cable  
      channel was about to be abolished or made much less  
      usable.    People appear to ask for a group home, parents  
      of a Down syndrome child.    There are many personal  
      petitions presented at this -- in the immediate wake of  
      the prayer.  
                          JUSTICE ALITO:    But that's during the public  
      -- that's during the public forum part.  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    That's in the public forum.  
                          JUSTICE ALITO:    Which is not really -- it's  
      not the same thing as the hearing.  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    It's not the same thing as the  
      hearing and that's the point, Your Honor.  
                          JUSTICE ALITO:    There's another -- there's  
      another part of the proceeding that is the hearing.  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    Yes.  
                          JUSTICE ALITO:    And that's when somebody has  
      a specific proposal.    They want to -- something  
      specifically before the board and they want relief.  
      They want a variance.  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    The -- the hearing is a  
      particular kind of proposal.  
                          JUSTICE ALITO:    And that is separated in  
      time.  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    That is -- that is somewhat  
      separated in time.    The forum is not.    And people make  
      quite personal proposals there.    They ask for board  
      action.    They often get board action.  
                          JUSTICE ALITO:    But that is a legislative  
      body at that point.    It's clearly a legislative body, is  
      it not?    The only -- the difference is it's a town  
      rather than -- than Congress or a State legislature  
      where you have more formalized procedures.    This is -
      this is more direct democracy.    Or it's like a -- it's a  
      town meeting.  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    It is -- it is direct  
      democracy.    When a citizen appears and says, solve the  
      traffic problem at my corner, solve this nuisance family  
      that commits a lot of crimes in my block, that's not  
  
      asking for legislation or policymaking.    That's asking  
      for administrative action.    This board has legislative,  
      administrative, and executive functions.  
                          JUSTICE ALITO:    Well, if that is your  
      argument, then you are really saying you can never have  
      prayer at a town meeting.  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    That's -- that's not what  
      we're saying.    We're saying -
                          JUSTICE ALITO:    How could you do it?  
      Because that's the kind of thing that always comes up at  
      town meetings.  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    We're saying you cannot have  
      sectarian prayer.    The town should instruct -- should  
      have a policy in the first place, which it doesn't,  
      instruct the chaplains keep your prayer nonsectarian, do  
      not address points of -
                          JUSTICE ALITO:    All right.    Give me an  
      example.    Give me an example of a prayer that would be  
      acceptable to Christians, Jews, Muslims, Buddhists,  
      Hindus.    Give me an example of a prayer.    Wiccans,  
      Baha'i.  
                          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:    And atheists.  
                          JUSTICE SCALIA:    And atheists.    Throw in  
      atheists, too.  
                          (Laughter.)  
  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    We -- we take Marsh to -- to  
      imply that atheists cannot get full relief in this  
      context, and the McCreary dissenters said that  
      explicitly.    So points on which believers are known to  
      disagree is a -- is a set that's in the American  
      context, the American civil religion, the  
      Judeo-Christian tradition -
                          JUSTICE ALITO:    Give me an example then.    I  
      think the point about atheists is a good point.    But  
      exclude them for present purposes and give me an example  
      of a prayer that is acceptable to all of the groups that  
      I mentioned.  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    About a third of the prayers  
      in this record, Your Honor, are acceptable.  
                          JUSTICE ALITO:    Give me an example.  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    Can I have the joint appendix?  
                          The prayers to the almighty, prayers to the  
      creator.  
                          JUSTICE ALITO:    To "the almighty."  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    Yes.  
                          JUSTICE ALITO:    So if -- if a particular  
      religion believes in more than one god, that's  
      acceptable to them?  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    Well, some religions that  
      believe in more than one god believe that all their many  
      gods are manifestations of the one god.    But the true  
      polytheists I think are also excluded from the McCreary  
      dissent.  
                          JUSTICE SCALIA:    What about devil  
      worshippers?  
                          (Laughter.)  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    Well, if devil worshippers  
      believe the devil is the almighty, they might be okay.  
      But they're probably out -
                          (Laughter.)  
                          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:    Who is going to make  
      this determination?    Is it -- is it an ex ante  
      determination?    You have to review the proposed prayer?  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    I'm just flipping through.  
      There are a number of examples, but if you look at page  
      74a of the joint appendix, the prayer from August 13,  
      2003 -- no I'm sorry.    That ends "in Christ's name."  
                          But there are -- the count was about, about  
      two-thirds, one-third.    So there are plenty of them in  
      here.  
                          JUSTICE ALITO:    74a, "Heavenly father,"  
      that's acceptable to all religions?  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    "Heavenly Father" is very  
      broadly acceptable.    And you know, the test cannot be  
      unanimity, because that's impossible, right?    That's why  
      the atheists are -- that's why the atheists are  
      excluded.  
                          I'm sorry, Justice Scalia; would you repeat  
      your question?  
                          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:    Well, I'll repeat  
      mine.    It was:    Who was supposed to make these  
      determinations?    Is there supposed to be an officer of  
      the town council that will review?    Do prayers have to  
      be reviewed for his approval in advance?  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    No.    Principally the clergy  
      make this determination.    There is a 200-year tradition  
      of this kind of civic prayer.    The clergy know how to do  
      it.    If the city has a policy, then an occasional  
      violation by one clergy is not the city's  
      responsibility.  
                          So -- so this is left principally to the  
      clergy by simply giving them instructions.    They receive  
      no instruction of any kind about the purpose of this  
      prayer or -
                          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:    So there is an  
      official in the town council that is to instruct clergy  
      about what kind of prayer they can say?  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    That's right.    37 State  
      legislative bodies, the House of Representatives have  
      these kinds of guidelines.    They issue them to the guest  
      clergy before they appear.  
                          JUSTICE KENNEDY:    And if I'm -- if I'm that  
      official and I think a prayer was over the top for being  
      proselytizing and particularly sectarian, I would say I  
      rather not -- you not come back next week; I am going to  
      look for somebody else?  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    Well, you might have a  
      conversation with him first and -
                          JUSTICE KENNEDY:    Well, so in other words  
      the government is now editing the content of prayers?  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    Editing the content of  
      government-sponsored prayers.    Of course these clergy  
      can pray any way they want on their own time with their  
      own audience.    But this is an official government event.  
      And it's part of the board's meeting.    It's sponsored by  
      the government.    And they delegate the task to these  
      clergy and they can define the scope of that -
                          JUSTICE SCALIA:    Your point is that it  
      coerces, it's bad because it coerces?  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    It coerces the people who are  
      about to stand up and ask for things from the board  
      and -
                          JUSTICE SCALIA:    If there is -- if coercion  
      is the test of the Free Exercise Clause, why do we need  
      a Free Exercise Clause?    If there's coercion -- I'm  
      sorry -- of the Establishment Clause, why do we need the  
      Establishment Clause?    If there's coercion, I assume it  
      would violate the Free Exercise Clause, wouldn't it?  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    Well, I think that's right.  
      And that's why -
                          JUSTICE SCALIA:    So it seems to me very  
      unlikely that the test for the Establishment Clause is  
      identical to the test for the Free Exercise Clause.  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    Well, it seems to me unlikely  
      as well.    Coercion is one test for the Establishment  
      Clause, but there is also broad agreement on the Court,  
      and there has been, that sectarian endorsements are  
      prohibited by the Establishment Clause.  
                          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:    What exactly -
      since you are adopting the coercion test, what exactly  
      is coercive in this environment?    Having to sit and  
      listen to the prayer?  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    There are many coercive  
      aspects here of varying degrees of importance.    Citizens  
      are asked to participate, to join in the prayer.  
      They're often asked to -
                          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:    They are asked to  
      participate, and -- but not in any tangible way.    They  
      say:    Well, I'm not going to participate, and  
      everybody's just sitting there.  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    They are often asked to  
      physically participate, to stand or to bow their heads.  
      The testimony is most of the citizens bow -- most of the  
      citizens bow their heads whether they are asked to or  
      not.    So people who are not participating are  
      immediately visible.    The pastors typically say:  
      "Please join me in prayer."    They offer the prayer on  
      behalf of everyone there.    They talk about "our  
      Christian faith."  
                          JUSTICE SCALIA:    This is coercion?    He says,  
      you know -- he says, "May we pray," and somebody doesn't  
      want to pray, so he stays seated.  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    What's coercive about it is it  
      is impossible not to participate without attracting  
      attention to yourself, and moments later you stand up to  
      ask for a group home for your Down syndrome child or for  
      continued use of the public access channel or whatever  
      your petition is, having just, so far as you can tell,  
      irritated the people that you were trying to persuade.  
                          JUSTICE ALITO:    Let me give you an example  
      of a practice that's a little bit different.    Maybe  
      you'll say it's a lot different from what the Town of  
      Greece does.    First of all, this town starts out by  
      making -- by proceeding in a more systematic and  
      comprehensive way in recruiting chaplains for the month  
      or whatever it is.    So instead of just looking to all  
      the houses of worship within the town, it identifies  
      places of worship that may be outside the town  
      boundaries that people within the town who adhere to a  
      minority religion may attend.  
                          And it makes it clear that it's open to  
      chaplains of any religious -- of any religion on a  
      rotating basis.    And then they have -- they structure  
      their proceedings so that you have the prayer, and then  
      the legislative part of the town meeting.  
                          And then there's a clear separation in time  
      and access between that part of the proceeding and the  
      hearing where variances and things of that nature are  
      held.  
                          Now, you would still say that's  
      unconstitutional because you have to add on that a  
      prayer that is acceptable to everybody; is that it?    Is  
      there any other problem with what I've just outlined?  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    Well, if the separation in  
      time really works, that's part of the remedy that we've  
      suggested that is possible here.    We still believe that  
      prayers should be nonsectarian.  
                          JUSTICE GINSBURG:    On the remedy, this case  
      was remanded by the Second Circuit for the parties  
      together with the court to work out appropriate relief.  
      And if you could tell us what you think that relief  
      would be, because then that is a measure of the  
      constitutional infraction.  
                          So what would -- you put yourself before the  
      district judge and propose the changes that you think  
      would be necessary to bring this practice within the  
      constitutional boundary.  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    Well, we think the town has to  
      have a policy.  
                          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:    Well, just to be  
      clear, are you talking about what would be satisfactory  
      to the Second Circuit or satisfactory to you?    Because  
      you don't accept the Second Circuit's approach.  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    Well, we've tried to sort out  
      the totality of the circumstances to make it clearer.  
                          JUSTICE GINSBURG:    What my question was -
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    I'm talking about what would  
      be -
                          JUSTICE GINSBURG:    -- your theory, and you  
      say existing situation violates the Constitution.    So  
      what changes do you think would need to be made -
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    We think -
                          JUSTICE GINSBURG:    -- that would bring this  
      within the constitutional boundary?  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    We think the town needs a  
  
      policy.    The policy should give guidelines to chaplains  
      that say:    Stay away from points in which believers are  
      known to disagree.    And we think the town should do what  
      it can to ameliorate coercion.    It should tell the  
      clergy:    Don't ask people to physically participate.  
      That's the most important thing.  
                  The government suggests disclaimers might help.  
      We think that's right.    The government suggests  
      separating the prayer a bit more in time.    Some States  
      put their prayer before the call to order.    The prayer  
      could even be five minutes before the beginning of the  
      meeting.  
                          The coercion can't be entirely eliminated,  
      but the gratuitous coercion, the things that are done  
      that don't have to be done in order to have a prayer  
      could be eliminated.    And we think those two pieces are  
      the components of a remedy.  
                          JUSTICE SCALIA:    Mr. Laycock, it seems to me  
      that you're missing here is -- and this is what  
      distinguishes legislative prayer from other kinds -- the  
      people who are on the town board or the representatives  
      who are in Congress, they're citizens.    They are there  
      as citizens.    The judges here are not -- we're not here  
      as citizens.    And as citizens, they bring, they bring to  
      their job all of -- all of the predispositions that  
  
      citizens have.  
                          And these people perhaps invoke the deity at  
      meals.    They should not be able to invoke it before they  
      undertake a serious governmental task such as enacting  
      laws or ordinances?  
                          There is a serious religious interest on the  
      other side of this thing that -- that -- that people who  
      have religious beliefs ought to be able to invoke the  
      deity when they are acting as citizens, and not -- not  
      as judges or as experts in -- in the executive branch.  
      And it seems to me that when they do that, so long as  
      all groups are allowed to be in, there seems to me -- it  
      seems to me an imposition upon them to -- to stifle the  
      manner in which they -- they invoke their deity.  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    We haven't said they can't  
      invoke the deity or have a prayer, and they can  
      certainly pray any way they want silently or just before  
      the meeting.    We've said they cannot impose sectarian  
      prayer on the citizenry, and that is very different from  
      what Congress does, it is very different from what this  
      Court does.    Maybe the closest analogy is legislative  
      committee hearings where the citizens interact.    We  
      don't have a tradition of prayer there.  
                          What -- what -- what the town board is doing  
      here is very different from anything in the tradition  
      that they appeal to.  
                          JUSTICE BREYER:    Are you -- I would like you  
      to take into account an aspect of this.    I mean, in my  
      own opinion, I don't know of anyone else's, I'm not  
      talking for others.    But one -- a major purpose of the  
      religion clauses is to allow people in this country of  
      different religion, including those of no religion, to  
      live harmoniously together.  
                          Now, given that basic purpose, what do we do  
      about the problem of prayer in these kinds of  
      legislative sessions?    One possibility is say, you just  
      can't do it, it's secular.    But that is not our  
      tradition.  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    That's correct.  
                          JUSTICE BREYER:    All right.    The second  
      possibility is the one that you are advocating.    And it  
      has much to recommend it, try to keep  
      non-denominational, try to keep it as inoffensive to the  
      others as possible.    That's the upside.  
                          The downside is seeing supervised by a judge  
      dozens of groups, and today, there are 60 or 70 groups  
      of different religions coming in and saying, no, that  
      doesn't work for us, this doesn't work for us, and  
      that's the nightmare that they are afraid of.  
                          I mean, even in this town or in the area,  
      there are significant numbers, as well as Christians, of  
      Jews, of Muslims, of Baha'is, of Hindus, and others.  
                          All right.    So there's a third approach, and  
      that is say, well, you can't have them if there's any  
      aspect of coercion.    But we just saw people walking into  
      this room, "God save the United States" and you want to  
      win your case.    I didn't see people sitting down.  
                          All right.    Then the fourth approach, which  
      is the other that has -- makes its appearance here, is  
      to say let's try to be inclusive.    Now, was enough -- in  
      other words, so you didn't get the right prayer today,  
      but you -- and even with the nonreligious, you know many  
      believe in the better angels of our nature and the  
      spiritual side of humankind; it's not impossible to  
      appeal to them.    So you say, you'll have your chance.  
                          And that's the thing I -- I would like you  
      to explore.    I mean, is there a way of doing that or is  
      that preferable to the other ways or do we get into  
      trouble?  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    We think that rotation does  
      not work.    First of all, because -- for several reasons,  
      but most citizens come for a single issue to one or two  
      meetings.    They get the prayer they get that night.  
      They don't benefit from the rotation scheme.    Any  
      rotation scheme will be dominated by the local majority,  
  
      maybe even disproportionate to its numbers.    Religious  
      minorities -- unfamiliar minorities give the prayer.  
      There are often political protests; there are often  
      threats and hate mail.    They don't want to give the  
      prayer.    And many city councils won't stand up to the  
      political pressure and enable those people to give the  
      prayer.  
                          So there are multiple reasons why rotation  
      does not solve the problem here.  
                          We think nonsectarianism has a very long  
      tradition.    The government is not a competent judge of  
      religious truth, Madison said, that was not a  
      controversial proposition in the founding.    And even in  
      the first Congress, in the prayers they point to, there  
      were no prayers there that violate our principle,  
      invoking details in which believers disagree.    Because  
      then, 98-1/2 percent of the population was Protestant,  
      Christ was not yet a point that disbelievers disagreed.  
                          JUSTICE ALITO:    Well, that gets exactly to  
      the -- that gets exactly to the problem with your  
      argument about nonsectarian prayer.    Yes, when -- at the  
      beginning of the country, the population was  
      98 percent-plus Protestant.    Then it became  
      predominantly Christian.    Then it became predominant -
      almost exclusively Christian and Jewish.  
  
                          And it -- but now, it's not that -- it's -
      it's gone much further than that.    So we have a very  
      religiously diverse country.    There are a lot of  
      Muslims, there are a lot of Hindus, there are Buddhists,  
      there are Baha'is, there are all sorts of other  
      adherents to all sorts of other religions.    And they all  
      should be treated equally, and -- but I don't -- I just  
      don't see how it is possible to compose anything that  
      you could call a prayer that is acceptable to all of  
      these groups.  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    We -
                          JUSTICE ALITO:    And you haven't given me an  
      example.  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    We -- we cannot treat -- I'm  
      not a pastor -- we cannot treat everybody, literally  
      everybody equally without eliminating prayer altogether.  
      We can treat the great majority of the people equally  
      with the tradition of prayer to the almighty, the  
      governor of the universe, the creator of the world -
                          JUSTICE SCALIA:    You want to pick the groups  
      we're going to exclude?  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    I think you picked them, Your  
      Honor.  
                          JUSTICE SCALIA:    The Baha'i, who else?  
      These -- these groups are too small to --  
                          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:    We've already  
      excluded the atheists, right?  
                          JUSTICE SCALIA:    Yeah, the atheists are out  
      already.  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    We've excluded the atheists.  
      I don't think the Baha'i are excluded, but I'm not  
      certain.  
                          JUSTICE SCALIA:    Okay.    So who else?    I  
      mean, you suggest -- you say just the vast majority is  
      all that we have to cater to.  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    Well, I -- I think the -- the  
      atheists are inevitably excluded.    We can't help -
                          JUSTICE SCALIA:    Okay.    Good.    Got that.  
      Number 1, atheists.    Who else?  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    True poly -- true polytheists  
      who don't understand their gods as manifestations of the  
      one god are probably excluded.    I'm not sure many others  
      are.  
                          And you have all these lawyerly  
      hypotheticals, but the fact is we've done this kind of  
      prayer in this country for 200 years.    There's a long  
      tradition of civic prayer and the clergy know how to do  
      it.    When in Greece, no one has told them that's what we  
      want you to do.    And -- and I would say the one time the  
      country in a major way got involved in  
      government-sponsored, sectarian prayers that people  
      disagreed about was when we imposed Protestant religious  
      exercises on Catholic children in the 19th century.    And  
      that produced mob violence, church burnings, and people  
      dead in the streets.  
                          JUSTICE KAGAN:    Mr. -
                          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:    We've already  
      separated out, I thought, in our jurisprudence, children  
      and adults.  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    Well, Lee v. Weisman twice  
      reserves the question of whether adults might be subject  
      to similar pressures.  
                          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:    Well, you do accept  
      the fact that children may be subject to subtle coercion  
      in a way that adults are not, right?  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    In some ways that adults are  
      not.    But there's -- there's no doubt that before you  
      stand up to ask for relief from a governing body, you  
      don't want to offend that body.    Adults are subject to  
      coercion here.    And -- and no competent attorney would  
      tell his client, it doesn't matter whether you visibly  
      dissent from the prayer or not.    You try to have your  
      client make a good impression.  
                          JUSTICE KENNEDY:    Well, I just want to make  
      sure what your position -- your position is that town  
      councils like Greece can have prayers if they are  
      non-provocative, modest, decent, quiet,  
      non-proselytizing.    That's your position?  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    I wouldn't use all those  
      adjectives, but yes.    And we don't think that's  
      difficult to do.  
                          JUSTICE KAGAN:    Mr. -
                          JUSTICE BREYER:    Congress has a set of  
      guidelines which you've read and are here in the papers  
      and so forth.    Are those satisfactory to you?  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    We'd like to be a little more  
      explicit, but those are vastly better than -
                          JUSTICE BREYER:    If those are satisfactory  
      to you, then I wonder, are they satisfactory to  
      everyone.    And -- and you will find all kinds of  
      different beliefs and thoughts in this country, and  
      there will be people who say, but I cannot give such a  
      prayer if I am a priest in that particular -- or a  
      minister or whatever in that particular religion.    I  
      must refer to the God -- to God as I know that God by  
      name.    And what do we do with them?  
                          That's what -- I mean, we can recommend it,  
      but can we say that the Constitution of the United  
      States requires it?  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    You know, there are such  
  
      people and I respect that and they should not be giving  
      government prayers.    They're taking on a government  
      function when they agree to give the invocation for the  
      town board.  
                          JUSTICE KAGAN:    Mr. Laycock -
                          JUSTICE SCALIA:    Well, that's -- that's -
      that's really part of the issue, whether they're  
      undertaking a government function or whether they're  
      acting as citizens in a legislative body, representative  
      of the people who bring -- who bring to that their -
      their own personal beliefs.  
                          I think the average person who -- who -- who  
      participates in a legislative prayer does not think that  
      this is a governmental function.    It's a personal  
      function.    And -- and that's why we separate out the  
      legislative prayer from other kinds of prayers.  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    They're -- they're not praying  
      for their congregation.    They are -- they are invited by  
      the board, the prayer-giver is selected by the board,  
      the board decides to have the prayer, the board gives  
      this one person and only one person time on the agenda  
      to pray.    This is clearly governmental as you held in  
      Santa Fe -
                          JUSTICE SCALIA:    If you had an atheist  
      board, you would not have any prayer.  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    Precisely.  
                          JUSTICE SCALIA:    I guarantee you, because it  
      is a personal prayer that the members of the legislature  
      desire to make.  
                          JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:    Counsel, assuming that  
      we don't -
                          JUSTICE KAGAN:    Mr. Laycock, would you -
                          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:    Justice Sotomayor.  
                          JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:    Assuming -- you hear the  
      resistance of some members of the Court to sitting as  
      arbiters of what's sectarian and nonsectarian, and I  
      join some skepticism as to knowing exactly where to join  
      that line.    Assuming you accept that, what would be the  
      test that you would proffer, taking out your preferred  
      announcement that this prayer has to be nonsectarian?  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    Well, the test that we have  
      proffered is the test from the McCreary dissent, points  
      on which believers are known to disagree.    So you don't  
      have to be a theologian.    Points on which people are  
      commonly known to disagree, and the Fourth Circuit has  
      had no difficulty administering this rule.    The cases  
      that come to it are clearly sectarian or clearly  
      nonsectarian.  
                          JUSTICE KENNEDY:    It just seems to me that  
      enforcing that standard and the standard I suggested  
      involves the State very heavily in the censorship and -
      and the approval or disapproval of prayers.  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    But it's not censorship when  
      it's the governmental -
                          JUSTICE KENNEDY:    That may play ultimately  
      in your position if we say that that's why there  
      shouldn't be any prayer at all.    But then you have the  
      problem mentioned by Justice Scalia that we are  
      misrepresenting who we really are.  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    If you really believe  
      government can't draw lines here, then your alternatives  
      are either prohibit the prayer entirely or permit  
      absolutely anything, including the prayer at the end of  
      our brief, where they ask for a show of hands, how many  
      of you believe in prayer?    How many of you feel  
      personally in need of prayer?    If there are no limits,  
      you can't draw lines.  
                          JUSTICE SCALIA:    That's not a prayer.  
      That's not a prayer.  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    Well, it was how -
                          JUSTICE SCALIA:    "How many of you have been  
      saved?"    That's not a prayer.  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    It was how he introduced his  
      prayer, and if you can't draw lines I don't know why he  
      can't say that.  
                          JUSTICE KAGAN:    Mr. Laycock, sort of, all  
      hypotheticals aside, isn't the question mostly here in  
      most communities whether the kind of language that I  
      began with, which refers repeatedly to Jesus Christ,  
      which is language that is accepted and admired and  
      incredibly important to the majority members of a  
      community, but is not accepted by a minority, whether  
      that language will be allowed in a public town session  
      like this one.    That's really the question, isn't it?  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    That's the issue that actually  
      arises in the case.  
                          JUSTICE KAGAN:    That's the issue that  
      actually arises.    Here's what -- I don't think that this  
      is an easy question.    I think it's hard, because of  
      this.    I think it's hard because the Court lays down  
      these rules and everybody thinks that the Court is being  
      hostile to religion and people get unhappy and angry and  
      agitated in various kinds of ways.    This goes back to  
      what Justice Breyer suggested.  
                          Part of what we are trying to do here is to  
      maintain a multi-religious society in a peaceful and  
      harmonious way.    And every time the Court gets involved  
      in things like this, it seems to make the problem worse  
      rather than better.    What do you think?  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    Well, I don't -- I don't think  
      that's true.    There are people who distort your  
      decisions.    There are people who misunderstand your  
      decisions honestly and -- and innocently.    But keeping  
      government neutral as between religions has not been a  
      controversial proposition in this Court.    And I don't  
      think the Fourth Circuit has made it worse.    They've got  
      a workable rule and the prayers are no longer  
      exclusively Christian prayers in the Fourth Circuit and  
      they have been able to mostly enforce that and there  
      hasn't been litigation at the margins because all the  
      prayers were clearly -
                          JUSTICE BREYER:    Suppose you did this.    You  
      combined your two approaches.    The town has to -- it  
      cannot -- it must make a good faith effort to appeal to  
      other religions who are in that area.    And then you have  
      these words from the House:    "The chaplain should keep  
      in mind that the House of Representatives, or you would  
      say whatever relative group, "is comprised of members of  
      many different faith traditions," period, end of matter.  
      Is that sufficient, those two things?  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    That would help immensely.    We  
      think some of the clergy need more detailed explanation  
      of what that means, but yes, that would help immensely.  
                          JUSTICE KENNEDY:    Should we write that in a  
      concurring opinion?  
                          (Laughter.)  
                          JUSTICE KENNEDY:    I mean, I'm serious about  
      this.    This involves government very heavily in  
      religion.  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    Well, government became very  
      heavily involved in religion when we decided there could  
      be prayers to open legislative sessions.    Marsh is the  
      source of government involvement in religion.    And now  
      the question is how to manage the problems that arise  
      from that.  
                          JUSTICE ALITO:    Well, Marsh is not the  
      source of government involvement religion in this  
      respect.    The First Congress is the source.  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    Fair enough.    The tradition to  
      which Marsh points.  
                          JUSTICE ALITO:    The First Congress that also  
      adopted the First Amendment.  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    That -- that's correct, and  
      that had prayers that did not address predestination or  
      having to accept Jesus as your savior or any point on  
      which listeners disagree.  
                          JUSTICE ALITO:    Many of them were very  
      explicitly Christian, were they not?  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    They were very explicitly  
      Christian, but that was not a point of disagreement at  
      the time.    They stayed away from any issue that  
      Protestants disagreed on.  
                          JUSTICE KENNEDY:    In a way it sounds quite  
      elitist to say, well, now, we can do this in Washington  
      and Sacramento and Austin, Texas, but you people up  
      there in Greece can't do that.  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    Well, it's not that the people  
      in Greece can't do it.    It's just that this board is  
      functioning in a fundamentally different way from what  
      Congress or the State legislature functions.    And  
      also -
                          JUSTICE ALITO:    My understanding is that the  
      first chaplain of the Senate was the Episcopal bishop of  
      New York; isn't that correct?    And he used to read -- he  
      took his prayers from the Book of Common Prayer.    That  
      was acceptable to Baptists at the time, Quakers?  
                          MR. LAYCOCK:    Well, it wouldn't have been  
      their choice.    But did he talk about the choice between  
      bishops and presbyters and congregations as a way of  
      governing the church?    They have not offered a single  
      example of a prayer in the founding era that addressed  
      points on which Protestants were known to disagree.    And  
      I don't think there is one.    The founding generation  
      kept government out of religious disagreements.    And  
      what has changed is not the principle.    What has changed  
      is that we have a wider range of religious disagreements  
      today.  
                          If there are no further questions, we ask  
      you to affirm.  
                          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:    Thank you,  
      Mr. Laycock.  
                          Mr. Hungar, you have 3 minutes remaining.  
                          REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS G. HUNGAR  
                                 ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER  
                          MR. HUNGAR:    Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.  
                          First I would like to correct one factual  
      misimpression, the assertion that only non-Christian  
      prayer-givers delivered the prayer after 2008.    It's not  
      in the record, but the official web site of the Town of  
      Greece shows that at least four non-Christian  
      prayer-givers delivered prayers thereafter in 2009, '10,  
      '11 and '13.  
                          On the sectarian points, clearly the line -
                          JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:    Counsel.  
                          MR. HUNGAR:    I'm sorry?  
                          JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:    One a year.  
                          MR. HUNGAR:    I'm sorry, Your Honor?  
                          JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:    Four additional people  
      after the suit was filed.  
                          MR. HUNGAR:    Yes, Your Honor.  
                          JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:    One a year.  
                          MR. HUNGAR:    Approximately.  
                          JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:    How often does the  
      legislature meet?  
                          MR. HUNGAR:    Once a month.  
                          And on the sectarian line, I just like to  
      point the Court to the Senate brief, the amicus brief  
      filed by Senators, pages 8 to 17 which shows the  
      extensive history from the beginning of the Republic  
      until today of prayer in Congress.    That would be  
      sectarian and unconstitutional under Respondent's  
      position.  
                          With respect to coercion, it's  
      unquestionably true that there is less basis for  
      claiming coercion here than there was in Marsh.    In  
      Marsh, Senator Chambers was required to be on the Senate  
      floor by rule, he had to be there to do his job and the  
      practice was to stand every single time, which he did  
      because he felt coerced to do it; whereas, here, the  
      record suggests that there were three times when  
      somebody requested people to stand out of 121 occasions.  
      The idea that this is more coercive than Marsh is  
      absurd.  
                          In Marsh the Court expressly rejected a  
      coercion argument saying, "We expect adults to be able  
      to deal with this."  
                          With respect to the history, as well, I  
      think the debate in the Continental Congress, when this  
      issue was first raised, shows what the American  
      tradition has been.    That is Americans are not bigots  
      and we can stand to hear a prayer delivered in a  
      legislative forum by someone whose views we do not agree  
      with.    That is the tradition in this country, and that's  
      why it doesn't violate the Establishment Clause.  
                          And finally, with respect to the fact that  
      this is a municipality rather than a state or local -
      Federal government.    That can't possibly make a  
      difference as an Establishment Clause matter.    It makes  
      no sense to suggest that a prayer at the local level is  
      more dangerous for Establishment Clause purposes than  
      what Congress is doing.    Only Congress could establish a  
      religion for the entire nation, which is the core  
      preventive purpose of the Establishment Clause.    To  
      suggest that there are greater restrictions on  
      municipalities makes no sense at all.  
                          We think that the dangerously overbroad  
      theories advanced by respondents are at odds with our  
      history and traditions, which we reflect this tradition  
      of tolerance for religious views that we don't agree  
      with in the legislative context.  
                          Respondent's theories also conflict with the  
      religion clauses mandate, that it's not the business of  
      government to be regulating the content of prayer and  
      regulating theological orthodoxy.  
                          Thank you.  
                          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:    Thank you, counsel.  
                          The case is submitted.  
                          (Whereupon, at 11:04 a.m., the case in the  
      above-entitled matter was submitted.)  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
O f f i c i a l - S u b j e c t t o R e v i e w
A            50:21           alliteration       appendix 22:18    assertion 56:12
a.m 1:13 3:2       administrative     12:22           32:16 33:16     assume 5:20 59:8               13:11 31:2,3     allow 42:6        applicants 15:17    36:2
aberration 8:10    admired 52:5     allowed 41:12     application 22:3   assuming 50:5,9
:12             adopt 11:8,16      52:8            26:14           50:13 able 10:20 41:3      27:3 28:6       almighty 32:17    applications      atheist 49:24 41:8 53:9         adopted 12:9       32:19 33:8       13:13 22:15,16   atheists 31:22 57:25              26:15 54:17       45:18          applies 5:10        31:23,24 32:2 abolished 29:13    adopting 36:15    alternatives      apply 4:21 11:21    32:9 34:1,1 above-entitled     adult 10:20        51:11           11:22           46:2,3,5,12,14 1:11 59:9         adults 23:25      altogether 45:16   approach 17:14    attempts 6:13 absence 8:6          47:9,11,15,16    ameliorate 40:4     19:21 24:8      attend 5:17 38:5 absolutely 51:13     47:19 57:25     amen 4:4          39:13 43:3,8     attention 37:15 absurd 57:23       advance 27:9,14   Amendment 8:2   approaches      attorney 47:20 accept 10:7          27:21,23 28:1     12:5,8 54:17      53:13          attracting 37:14 39:13 47:13        28:4,11,14,18    American 24:11   approaching      audience 35:14 50:13 54:20        28:20 34:9       32:5,6 58:4       25:1          August 33:16 acceptable         advanced 58:22    Americans       appropriate      Austin 55:5 31:19 32:11,14    advancement      24:22 58:5       13:7 38:25      average 49:12 32:23 33:22,24     26:4          amicus 1:19 2:7    approval 34:9     avoid 10:15 20:3 38:17 45:9       advances 27:6      13:17 19:14       51:2          award 15:16 55:16            advancing 14:24    57:7          Approximately     16:8 accepted 52:5,7    advocating       analogs 26:19      57:2          aware 5:9
:16 analogy 41:21 arbiters 50:11
B
:17 38:12
back 11:13,14
:4 35:5 52:18
backdrop 25:2 bad 35:19
Baha'i 6:14 31:21 45:24 46:6
Baha'is 43:2
:5
Baptists 55:16 barrier 3:15 basic 42:9
basis 38:8 57:14 Becket 13:17
began 3:19 52:4 beginning 7:6,9
:24 21:11 25:4 40:11 44:22 57:9
begins 14:20
behalf 1:15,21
A l d e r s o n R e p o r t i n g C o m p a n y
access 16:3,8
affirm 56:4
 analysis 9:23
 area 16:13 42:25
afraid 42:24
 11:20
 53:15
account 42:3
agenda 49:21
 angels 43:13
 argue 7:12 20:21
acknowledge
agitated 52:18
 angry 52:17
 argument 1:12
:24
agree 8:1 20:8
 announcement
 2:2,5,9,12 3:3
acknowledged
:2 23:13,15
 8:24 50:15
 3:7 10:24
:25
:7,25 49:3
 answer 12:15
 14:18,20 19:13
acting 41:9 49:9
:7,24
 19:6 29:7
 26:12 29:3
action 30:14,14
agreement 36:11
 answered 7:19
 31:5 44:21
:2
akin 26:3
 ante 33:12
 56:8 57:25
add 38:16
AL 1:6
 anyone's 16:22
 arises 52:11,13
addition 5:13
ALITO 15:7,19
 appeal 42:1
 artifacts 11:1
additional 56:23
:23 16:4
 43:15 53:14
 aside 52:2
address 22:7
:18,21,25
 appeals 3:11
 asked 3:22 7:25
:16 54:19
:3,9,15 31:4
 22:18
 24:15 36:20,21
addressed 55:21
:9,17 32:8
 appear 16:15
 36:22 37:1,4
adhere 38:4
:15,19,21
 29:10,14 35:1
 asking 19:5 28:8
adherents 45:6
:21 37:20
 appearance 43:9
 31:1,1
adjectives 48:5
:19 45:12
 APPEARAN...
 aspect 26:9 42:3
adjudicate
:11,16,22
 1:14
 43:5
:20
:12
 appeared 15:9
 aspects 36:19
adjudicated
Allah 21:8
 appearing 28:11
 assembly 27:7,8
:15
Allegheny 14:25
 appears 30:23
 assert 15:15
administering
:4,11,14 3:8       39:24              24:12 26:11,11    child 29:15          36:13 58:9,13 29:4 37:8 56:9    bow 3:23 37:2,3      38:23 43:7         37:16              58:15,18 beliefs 41:8          37:4               52:11 59:7,8      children 15:16     clauses 13:4 48:16 49:11      branch 41:10      cases 12:25 14:4      26:21,24 47:3      42:6 59:2 believe 6:5 9:1      branches 7:7        50:21              47:8,14          clear 11:10 13:6 20:24       Breyer 16:10,19    categories 15:18    choice 55:18,18      12:12 38:6,11 24:17 32:25,25     17:7,17,23       cater 46:10        Christ 3:25          39:11 33:8 38:21         18:7 19:5 26:2    Catholic 47:3        20:22 44:18      clearer 39:15 43:13 51:10,15     42:2,15 48:8      censorship 51:1      52:4             clearly 4:18 6:19 believers 32:4        48:13 52:19        51:3             Christ's 33:17       9:3 11:19 15:5 40:2 44:16         53:12            century 47:3       Christian 17:10      30:16 49:22 50:18            brief 7:2 13:17     certain 25:15        19:21 24:10        50:22,22 53:11 believes 24:16        14:22 25:12,14     46:7               37:9 44:24,25      56:18 32:22              26:23 27:25      certainly 16:18       53:8 54:23,25     clergy 34:10,12 belittle 27:19        51:14 57:7,7       16:21 17:4,19     Christians 16:14     34:14,17,21 belongs 24:18      bring 39:6,23        41:17              24:23 31:19        35:1,12,17 benefit 43:24        40:24,24 49:10    chairman 22:2       43:1               40:5 46:22 better 43:13         49:10            challenges 26:4     church 47:4         53:22 48:12 52:24      bringing 22:3      Chambers 10:12     55:20            client 47:21,23 bigots 58:5         broad 36:11         57:16            circuit 16:12       clients 29:11 bills 13:24         broadly 33:24      chance 43:15        27:16 38:24      closer 5:8 9:11 bishop 55:13       brought 25:12      changed 55:25       39:12 50:20      closest 24:14 bishops 55:19        26:5               55:25              53:6,8             41:21 bit 37:21 40:9      Buddhists 31:19    changes 39:5,21    Circuit's 19:18     coerced 10:14 Blessed 4:1          45:4             channel 16:3,8       39:13              22:4 57:19 block 30:25        burnings 47:4       29:12,13 37:17    circumstances     coerces 35:19,19 board 7:4,4,5,11    business 59:2      chaplain 6:3,7       39:15              35:20
:5 22:20
:8,8 27:7
citizen 24:12
:23
coercion 15:2 22:7 23:9,13
:10 30:5,13     C 2:1 3:1          28:10,21,22     citizenry 41:19      23:16 26:13,18 30:14 31:2       cable 16:3,8        53:16 55:13     citizens 24:6        27:2 35:23,25 35:21 40:21        29:12,12        chaplains 31:15     36:19 37:3,4      36:2,10,15 41:24 49:4,19     California 27:8     37:25 38:7        40:22,23,24,24    37:10 40:4,13 49:19,20,20,25    call 7:13 40:10      40:1            41:1,9,22         40:14 43:5 55:8               45:9           Charlottesville      43:22 49:9        47:14,20 57:13 board's 35:15      called 3:20 4:5      1:20           city 11:14 34:13     57:15,25 bodies 14:11,11      22:13          checks 25:15       44:5           coercive 7:13 34:24            candid 25:13      Chief 3:3,9,19     city's 34:14        36:16,18 37:13 body 5:10,14 7:3     28:9            4:5 9:22 10:23    civic 34:12         57:22 13:10,14 14:12    carry 10:24        11:5 19:10,16     46:22          combined 53:13 17:15 22:2       case 3:4,12 4:5,8     21:10 29:1,5     civil 32:6         come 14:5 18:6 25:2,13,24         4:9,20 6:5,6       31:22 33:11     claim 15:17        35:5 43:22 30:16,16 47:18     7:5,8 9:11,13      34:5,20 36:14    claiming 57:15      50:22 47:19 49:9         9:13,21 10:11     36:22 39:10     Clause 8:17       comes 31:10 Book 55:15          13:2 14:25        46:1 47:7,13      11:20 14:23     coming 7:15 boundaries 38:4     17:24 18:24       50:8 56:5,10      15:2 35:24,25     42:22 boundary 39:7       19:1 23:5        59:6            36:1,2,3,7,8,11   commits 30:25
:3 24:13              C         9:17 12:10,11
committed 3:14      58:3,16,16       counsel 19:11      danger 12:2         34:7
committee 5:4      congressional        29:1 50:5         dangerous 58:15   determine 19:19 5:22 41:22         5:1,8 12:10,10      56:19 59:6       dangerously         20:10,15 committees 5:11     21:5             counselor 20:21      58:21            determining Common 55:15    consistent 13:3     count 33:18        day 5:21,23          20:17 commonly 50:20     14:24            country 4:11       dead 47:5          devil 33:4,7,8 communities       Constitution        24:4 42:6         deal 58:1          difference 6:1 52:3               24:5 39:20         44:22 45:3       dealings 10:17       9:23 10:1 25:1 community 6:16     48:23              46:21,25 48:16    debate 58:3          30:17 58:13 17:16 24:13      constitutional       58:8             debates 20:18      differences 52:7               9:12,13,14,15     County 14:25        21:3,6             20:19 22:12 comparable 8:7      10:22 12:16,17    course 5:9 13:19    decent 48:2          23:11
compelled 5:16      12:19 13:1,3,6      13:20 26:21      decided 54:6       different 5:11,17 8:21 10:10         13:9 17:5,8        27:4 35:12       decides 49:20        8:19 9:9 10:10 competent 44:11     20:7 21:15       court 1:1,12        decision 16:8        16:24 18:7,8 47:20              39:3,7,24          3:10,11,14,19      19:18              20:16 23:5 components       constitutionally      4:3 7:3 8:1,25     decisions 53:2,3      25:3 37:21,22 40:17              9:18 10:9          10:19 12:6       define 12:13         41:19,20,25 compose 45:8        17:20              14:5,13 16:12      35:17              42:7,22 48:16 comprehensive     content 9:19         19:17 21:7,7      degrees 36:19        53:19 55:9 37:25              27:15 28:23        22:18 23:22,23    deity 25:9 41:2,9   differently 11:6 comprised 53:18     35:10,11 59:3      27:2,12 29:6       41:14,16         difficult 48:6 conceded 8:3       context 4:22,25      36:11 38:25      delegate 35:16     difficulty 50:21 concern 15:2        8:5,6 21:10        41:21 50:10      deliver 27:8        direct 30:20,22 22:22              32:3,6 58:25       52:15,16,22      delivered 19:2      disagree 10:20 concerned 29:12    contexts 4:22        53:5 57:7,24       56:13,16 58:6      32:5 40:3 concerns 16:21     Continental       Court's 11:20      democracy          44:16 50:18,20 concurring          25:5 58:3          12:24              30:20,23           54:21 55:22 53:25            continued 37:17    courtroom 3:20    denigrate 27:14    disagreed 44:18 conduct 15:2       controversial        4:25               27:23 28:4         47:2 55:2 conducted 4:13      44:13 53:5       courts 19:19       denomination      disagreement confident 12:2     convenes 13:12      20:3               6:2,7 9:17          16:7,20 54:25 confirmation      conversation       creator 32:18        28:22            disagreements 5:2                35:8               45:19            denominations      55:24 56:1 conflict 59:1       conversion        crimes 30:25         6:3              disagrees 10:21 confused 25:18      27:17            criteria 26:6       Department       disapproval congregation      core 15:1 58:17     cross 3:25 4:5        1:18               51:2 49:18            corner 30:24         11:14,17         depend 4:22       disbelievers congregations     correct 4:17 6:4    curiae 1:19 2:7     deputy 1:17         44:18 55:19              6:10,20 9:2        19:14              18:4             disclaimers 40:7
Congress 12:7 13:15,23 14:14
 42:14 54:18
desire 50:4
disparaging
:25
:5,6,20         correctly 3:11      D 3:1           detailed 53:22     disproportion... 30:18 40:22      council 15:11      D.C 1:8,15,18     details 44:16       44:1 41:20 44:14        34:8,21          damnation       determination     dissent 33:3 48:8 54:13,16     councils 22:8        20:11 27:18       33:12,13 34:11    47:22 50:17 55:10 57:10        44:5 48:1         damning 20:6     determinations    dissenters 32:3
:14 56:11             D        described 9:9
distinction 8:4       45:16            everybody 10:16   expressly 57:24     five 40:11 8:15 10:6         elitist 55:4           38:17 45:15,16    extension 4:15     flawed 19:22 distinguishable    else's 42:4           52:16            extensive 57:9      flipping 33:14 9:19             enable 44:6        everybody's       extent 26:5         floor 26:22 distinguishes      enacting 41:4        36:25            extreme 15:2        57:17
:20
distinguishing
endorsement
:15
evidence 15:14
:24
:12             endorsements      exact 4:23 5:6      faced 20:12       forbid 8:18,18 distort 53:1          36:12            exactly 7:9 20:2    facing 3:21       force 14:19 district 21:7        ends 14:20           36:14,15 44:19    fact 5:13 7:12     forced 24:16 39:5               33:17              44:20 50:12        10:3 12:1,5,6    formalistic 29:8 diverse 45:3        enforce 53:9       example 21:4        13:2 28:9       formalized divine 22:10       enforcing 50:25      26:20 31:18,18     46:20 47:14       30:19 doctrine 4:10      engrafting 3:14      31:20 32:8,10      58:10          forth 48:10 13:7 24:1         entertained         32:15 37:20      factor 5:13       forum 15:20 doing 10:16 12:3     13:24              45:13 55:21      factors 22:25       22:13 26:8 16:11 17:5,9      entertains 13:12    examples 13:18     factual 56:11       29:19,20 30:12 18:1 41:24       entire 58:17         33:15            fair 28:9 54:14      58:7 43:17 58:16      entirely 29:8       exclude 32:10      faith 15:4 17:25    foundations dominated          40:13 51:12        45:21              37:9 53:14,19     4:11 43:25            entity 16:8         excluded 33:2      familiar 6:17      founding 4:12 doubt 47:17        entrance 25:16       34:2 46:2,5,6     family 30:24       13:4,19 44:13 DOUGLAS 1:20   environment        46:12,17         far 5:9 9:14        55:21,23 2:10 29:3          36:16            exclusion 15:5       10:23 37:18     four 6:13 56:15 downside 42:20    Episcopal 55:13    exclusively 6:12    father 33:21,23     56:23 dozens 42:21       equal 24:6           12:12 44:25      Fe 49:23         fourth 43:8 draw 3:25 51:11    equally 13:6         53:8             Federal 13:22      50:20 53:6,8 51:17,24           14:15,23 45:7     excuse 23:2          20:3 22:11      framing 12:5 drawn 14:10         45:16,17         executive 7:3        58:12          Free 35:24,25
E          equivalent 18:12,18
:3 41:10
Exercise 35:24
feel 17:10 22:4
:15
:3,8
front 3:20 5:4
E 2:1 3:1,1         era 55:21          35:25 36:3,8     fellow 10:17      full 24:6 32:2 easier 6:5 26:11    error 3:14        exercises 47:3     felt 10:14,15      function 49:3,8 easily 7:16         ESQ 1:15,17,20    existed 12:16       57:19           49:14,15 easy 25:17 52:14     2:3,6,10,13      existing 39:20     filed 56:24 57:8    functioning 55:9 editing 35:10,11    essence 14:17     exists 24:15       finally 58:10      functions 13:11 effect 7:20         essential 12:23     exit 25:17        find 48:15         14:1 31:3 effort 17:9,25      establish 13:5     expect 57:25      first 3:4 7:24 8:2     55:10 18:9 53:14         58:16          expected 10:20      11:7,24 12:5,7    Fund 13:17 either 16:15        establishment     experts 41:10       12:8 13:17      fundamental
:8 51:12         8:17 11:19      explanation        19:23 23:21,22    15:1
element 26:13        12:1 14:23        8:10 53:22        25:5,6 31:14     fundamentally elements 26:17       15:1,3 36:1,2,7   explicit 48:12       35:8 37:23        55:9 27:1               36:10,13 58:9    explicitly 32:4      43:21 44:14     further 9:14 eliminated          58:13,15,18       54:23,24         54:13,16,17       45:2 56:3 40:13,16         ET 1:6          explore 43:17       55:13 56:11     future 11:11
eliminating        event 35:14       expressing 16:7     58:4
ex 33:12                  F        following 3:18
G            17:15 23:4       guy 22:1           5:10 8:7,9,18      19:8 56:7,8,10
G 1:15 2:3,13
:1,7 56:8
galleries 26:24 Galloway 1:6
:5
general 1:17
:8
generation
:23
Gershengorn 1:17 2:6 19:12 19:13,16 20:8 20:14,25 21:2 21:13,19,22
:6 23:1,7,15 23:18 24:3,24 25:11,25 27:11 27:22 28:2,7 28:13,17
GINSBURG
:14 6:8,22 13:8 25:11
:23 39:16,19 39:23
give 5:5 31:17 31:18,20 32:8 32:10,15 37:20 40:1 44:2,4,6 48:17 49:3 given 13:21
:25 25:7,23 42:9 45:12 gives 49:20
giving 34:17
:1
go 11:13,14 17:16 27:8 god 8:25 9:1 11:2,8 32:22 32:25 33:1 43:6 46:17
:20,20,20
gods 33:1 46:16 goes 12:4 52:18 going 11:11,12
:13 15:6
:13 27:8,9 33:11 35:5
:24 45:21 good 17:25 25:22 32:9
:13 47:23 53:14
governing 47:18
:20
government 7:7
:19 15:4
:9,9,14,22 25:2 35:10,14 35:16 40:7,8
:11 49:2,2,8 51:11 53:4 54:3,5,8,12 55:24 58:12 59:3
government-s...
:12 47:1
governmental 41:4 49:14,22 51:4
governor 45:19 gratuitous 40:14 great 45:17
greater 13:5,5
:19
Greece 1:3 3:5
:11 14:2
:22 37:23 46:23 48:1
:6,8 56:15 ground 10:6 group 29:14 37:16 53:18
groups 32:11
:12 42:21,21 45:10,20,25
guarantee 50:2 guest 25:8 34:25 guidance 18:21
:10 23:20
guidelines 34:25
:1 48:9
H
H 1:17 2:6 19:13 hand 8:6 25:19 handle 20:4 hands 51:14
happened 17:21
:4
harbors 26:3 hard 52:14,15 harmonious
:22
harmoniously
:8
hate 44:4
heads 3:23 37:2
:4
hear 3:3 50:9
:6
hearing 5:1,2,3
:16 29:9,22 29:24 30:1,7 38:13
hearings 7:13,14
:12 21:25 41:22
Heavenly 33:21
:23
heavily 51:1
:3,6
held 3:11 7:14
:14 10:19 21:8 22:1
:20 38:14 49:22
help 40:7 46:12
:21,23
helpful 26:7 high 26:22
Hindus 31:20
:2 45:4
historical 8:10
:12 10:24 11:1 12:11 13:9
history 4:11 5:8
:10,19,24
:3 13:13,20 13:24 19:24
:19,19,21,22 25:3 26:20 28:24 57:9 58:2,23
Holy 21:6
home 29:14
:16
honest 28:9
honestly 53:3
Honor 4:7 5:25
:4 7:23 9:2 12:18 13:16
:9,21 15:13 15:22 17:13
:14,25 21:13 21:20 22:6,12 22:22 23:8,16 25:25 27:11 28:3,7,13,25 29:24 32:14
:23 56:22,25 Honorable 8:25 hostile 52:17 House 34:24
:16,17
houses 17:16
:2
humankind
:14
Hungar 1:15 2:3
:13 3:6,7,9,17 4:7,18 5:7,16 5:25 6:4,9,11
:19 7:8,22 8:3 8:11,16,23 9:2 9:5,7 10:8 11:4 11:18 12:18,24 13:16 14:9,21 15:13,22,25 16:6,18 17:3 17:13,19 18:2 18:10,11,14,17 18:20,23 19:1
:20,22,25 57:2,5
hybrid 13:10,14
:13,23
hypothetical 7:25 9:8,8,24 10:1 11:23 12:4
hypotheticals
:20 52:2
I
IAN 1:17 2:6
:13
idea 57:22
identical 36:8 identified 3:13
:10
identifies 13:18
:2
identify 24:16
:1
idiom 20:1 25:7 ill-equipped
:3
immediate
:16
immediately
:15 37:6 immensely
:21,23
impact 13:5 imply 32:2 importance
:19
important 5:12
:4 11:19
:16 40:6 52:6
impose 41:18 imposed 47:2 imposition
:13
impossible 33:25
:14 43:14 impression
:23            invokes 20:22        5:15,19,20 6:1      8:15                    L
include 17:25
including 16:25
:7 51:13
inclusive 43:10 incongruous
:13,16
inconsistent
:21
incredibly 52:6 indicated 12:25 indicates 15:1 indication 10:5 individual 15:8 indoctrination
:1
inevitably 46:12 inform 25:17
infraction 39:3 innocently 53:3 inoffensive
:18
instance 7:21,22 institution 24:14 instruct 31:13
:15 34:21 instruction
:18
instructions
:17
interact 41:22 interest 41:6
interests 15:15 introduced
:23
investigatory
:2
invited 10:3 19:20 49:18 invites 20:2
invocation 5:23
:20 29:10 49:3
invocations 19:2 invoke 22:9 41:2
:3,8,14,16 invoked 25:9
invoking 22:10
:16
involved 46:25
:22 54:6
involvement
:8,12
involves 4:18,20
:20 51:1 54:3 irritated 37:19 issue 3:12 7:10
:20 16:3,5 34:25 43:22
:7 52:10,12 55:1 58:4
issues 22:21
J
Jesus 3:25 4:2
:22 52:4 54:20
Jew 5:23 24:10 Jewish 44:25 Jews 24:23 31:19 43:2
job 40:25 57:17 join 36:20 37:7
:12,12
joint 32:16
:16
Judeo-Christi...
:7
judge 20:11 39:5
:20 44:11 judges 40:23
:10
judgments 20:16 23:24 judicial 8:5
judiciary 8:19
:20
juniors 26:23 jurisprudence
:8
Justice 1:18 3:3
:9,17,19 4:5 4:14,15,23
:8,10,22,25 7:18,19,24,24 8:8,14,22 9:4,6 9:22 10:1,23 11:5 12:14,19 13:8 14:3,17 15:7,19,23 16:4,10,19 17:7,17,23
:7,11,15,18 18:22 19:4,5 19:10,16 20:5 20:9,20,21
:1,9,10,16 21:21,24 23:1 23:13,17 24:3 24:24 25:11 26:2 27:4,20 27:24 28:5,8
:15 29:1,5,7 29:18,21,25
:3,9,15 31:4 31:9,17,22,23 32:8,15,19,21 33:4,11,21
:3,5,20 35:2 35:9,18,23 36:6,14,22
:10,20 38:23 39:10,16,19,23 40:18 42:2,15 44:19 45:12,20 45:24 46:1,3,8 46:13 47:6,7 47:13,24 48:7 48:8,13 49:5,6 49:24 50:2,5,7 50:8,8,9,24 51:5,8,18,21 52:1,12,19
:12,24 54:2 54:11,16,22 55:3,12 56:5
:10,19,21,23 57:1,3 59:6
justification
K
Kagan 3:17 4:15
:23 5:19 6:10 7:25 10:1
:22 23:1
:3,24 47:6
:7 49:5 50:7 52:1,12
Kagan's 6:25
:19 29:7
keep 31:15
:17,18 53:16
keeping 53:3 KENNEDY
:18,24 8:8,14 14:3,17 27:4 27:20,24 28:5 28:8,15 35:2,9 47:24 50:24 51:5 53:24 54:2 55:3
kept 23:4 55:24 kind 5:3 13:13
:14 30:8
:10 34:12,18 34:22 46:20 52:3
kinds 4:24 20:18
:3 34:25
:20 42:10 48:15 49:16 52:18
knew 6:17
know 11:15 13:1
:8,23 17:3 17:18 18:2,23 23:3,7 33:24 34:12 37:11 42:4 43:12
:22 48:20,25 51:24
knowing 50:12
known 32:4 40:3
:18,20 55:22
language 25:10
:3 52:3,5,8
Laughter 18:25
:7 31:25
:6,10 54:1
laws 41:5
lawyerly 46:19 lawyers 3:21 Laycock 1:20 2:10 29:2,3,5 29:20,23 30:2 30:7,11,22
:7,12 32:1
:13,16,20,24 33:7,14,23
:10,23 35:7 35:11,20 36:4 36:9,18 37:1 37:13 38:19
:8,14,17,22 39:25 40:18 41:15 42:14
:20 45:11,14 45:22 46:5,11 46:15 47:10,16 48:4,11,25
:5,17 50:1,7 50:16 51:3,10 51:20,23 52:1 52:10,25 53:21 54:5,14,18,24 55:7,17 56:6
lays 52:15 lead 5:22 leads 15:3 led 12:1
Lee 47:10
left 17:24 34:16 legal 3:14
legislation 31:1 legislative 3:12 3:16 4:9,12,19 4:20,21 5:10 5:14 7:6,9 8:5 11:25 12:3
:21,25 14:1
:6,11,12,12     longer 53:7        matters 15:11        51:9             necessarily 14:14 17:14,15    look 11:5 20:15     McCreary 32:3     missing 40:19        11:18 19:24 22:2         33:15 35:6         33:2 50:17       misunderstand     necessary 25:23 23:23 25:7       looking 28:22      meals 41:3           53:2               39:6
:13 30:15,16     38:1             mean 5:24 6:19     misunderstood     need 35:24 36:1 31:2 34:24       looks 23:22          10:9,11 11:1       9:8                39:21 51:16 38:10 40:20      Lord 4:2            11:15 14:21      mitigates 23:8       53:22
:21 42:11      lot 30:25 37:22       17:6 28:21       mob 47:4          needed 10:16,17 49:9,13,16         45:3,4             42:3,25 43:17     modest 48:2        needs 39:25 54:7 58:7,25      lots 16:24            46:9 48:22       modified 27:21     neutral 53:4
legislator 10:18
means 11:11
moment 19:4
moments 37:15
never 31:5
new 1:3 3:15
:19 10:13       M 21:22           24:8 53:23      month 37:25       55:14 13:10,14 19:19    Madison 44:12    meant 28:14       57:5           newspaper 18:5 23:2,12,12       mail 44:4        measure 39:2     morning 3:4      nice 12:22 25:21 25:4,20 30:18     maintain 52:21    meet 57:4        motto 11:1,2,8     night 43:23 50:3 55:10       major 42:5       meeting 7:4        11:25          nightmare 42:24 57:4               46:25           13:12 14:12     multi-religious    nomination 5:6 legislature's       majority 43:25      22:19 30:21       52:21          non-Christian 9:15               45:17 46:9        31:6 35:15      multiple 16:2       56:12,15 legislatures 8:20     52:6            38:10 40:12       19:2 44:8       non-denomin...
:9,11 26:24     making 17:9,25     41:18          municipal 13:18     42:18
let's 11:7 20:24       18:8 37:24      meetings 7:10      22:9           non-legislative
:9 43:10       malice 6:15        22:20 31:11     municipalities      14:10
level 13:22 58:14   manage 54:9       43:23           58:20          non-proselytiz... license 22:15       mandate 59:2     members 4:3 5:4   municipality       48:3
light 28:23         manifestations      50:3,10 52:6      58:11          non-provocati... limit 27:13          33:1 46:16        53:18          Muslim 5:22       48:2
limitations 6:24    manner 41:14     mentioned         24:10          non-purely 14:1 7:1              margins 53:10      32:12 51:8      Muslims 31:19    nonbeliever limits 51:16        Marsh 3:13,15     mere 28:19        43:2 45:4        24:11
line 9:14,15 14:10 50:13
:10,18 6:6,6 9:16 10:11
mind 53:17
:23 27:18
:18 57:6         12:6 14:7,14     minister 3:20,22   N 2:1,1 3:1       nondiscrimina...
lines 51:11,17,24     20:2,6 23:20      3:23 5:6 6:14    name 33:17        9:10 liquor 22:15         23:21,25 27:13    9:9 28:10        48:21          nonreligious listen 36:17          27:22 28:3,14     48:19          narrower 27:12     19:2 43:12 listeners 54:21       28:20,20,20     ministers 6:18     nation 58:17      nonsectarian literally 45:15        32:1 54:7,11     minorities 44:2    nation's 19:24      31:15 38:22 litigation 53:10      54:15 57:15,16    44:2           nature 22:1        44:21 50:11,15 little 37:21 48:11     57:22,24        minority 38:5       25:13,23 38:13    50:23
live 17:11 42:8     marshal's 8:23      52:7            43:13          nonsectarianis... local 24:13         matter 1:11 6:23 minutes 7:15      near 16:23 17:11    44:10 43:25 58:11,14     7:2 17:6,21       40:11 56:7        17:11          note 17:20 long 11:3 19:24      18:3 22:8       misimpression    Nebraska 9:16     November 1:9 23:22 41:11        47:21 53:19       56:12           10:13 13:15     nuisance 30:24 44:10 46:21        58:13 59:9      misrepresenting    25:20          number 13:11
legislature 4:16           M         54:2
mine 34:6                 N        nonbelievers
:15 46:14        42:4 53:25         35:4               1:19 2:4,8,14       14:24 17:4 numbers 43:1      opposed 16:9       parties 3:21 21:4     3:8 19:15 56:9      18:3 26:9 44:1             opposite 17:9        38:24            Petitioner's 29:7     47:25,25 48:3
:7 29:3
partisan 8:20 pastor 45:15
 petitions 29:16 physically 37:2
 51:6 57:12
possibility 42:11
O 2:1 3:1          order 40:10,15    pastors 37:6        40:5            42:16 oath 5:17 8:21      ordinances 41:5    peaceful 52:21     pick 45:20        possible 38:21 object 15:10       organized 18:9    peer 24:2        picked 45:22       42:19 45:8 18:1             orthodox 5:23     people 5:16 6:16   pieces 40:16      possibly 58:12 objecting 17:2      orthodoxy 59:4     8:21 9:1 10:2    pillars 23:20      practical 17:6 objection 16:10    ought 41:8         10:10,13,17     place 7:1,1         17:21 18:3 16:17 17:18      outlined 38:18      16:24 17:10       31:14          practice 3:16 obviously 4:8      outside 38:3        18:9 21:17      places 38:3         9:16 10:12 5:12 15:9         overbroad 58:21    22:4 24:17,19    plaintiffs 15:8      11:10,25 12:9
occasion 15:25
:12 35:20
play 51:5
please 3:10
:15,22,23 13:1,9,21
occasionally       P 3:1                37:5,19 38:4      19:17 29:6        17:15 37:21 15:20            page 2:2 33:15       40:5,21 41:2,7     37:7            39:6 57:18 occasions 6:13     pages 25:14          42:6 43:5,7      plenty 33:19      practices 13:4 16:2,2 19:3        26:22 57:8         44:6 45:17      point 9:24 16:20   pray 35:13 57:21            paid 6:6             47:1,4 48:17      17:2 20:12        37:11,12 41:17 occurred 5:21      papers 48:9          49:1,10 50:19     22:7 26:6,20      49:22 occurs 25:2        parallel 5:21         52:17 53:1,2      29:24 30:16     prayer 3:16,23 odds 58:22          12:21,22           55:5,7 56:23      32:9,9 35:18      4:10,12,19,20 offend 47:19       parents 29:14        57:21           44:14,18 54:20    4:21 7:5,7,8,15 offensive 3:13      parse 20:9         percent 21:4,5,5     54:25 57:7        7:17,25 10:5 offer 37:7          parsing 20:2,13      44:17          pointed 22:12      11:25 12:4 offered 55:20        23:24            percent-plus       26:18 27:1        13:19 16:1,15 officer 34:7        part 6:15 15:12      44:23          points 26:23        17:15 18:6,12 officers 15:16        15:20 26:12      perfectly 17:14      31:16 32:4        18:19 19:25,25 official 4:16 25:8     27:5 29:19       period 53:19       40:2 50:17,19     20:2,15 21:10 34:21 35:3,14      30:1 35:15       permissible 4:6     54:15 55:22       21:12 22:19,20 56:14              38:10,12,20        9:18            56:18           23:4,23,24 oh 27:10            49:7 52:20       permit 15:17      police 15:16        27:9,16 28:23 okay 9:4,6 11:11 participants         51:12          policy 31:14        29:17 31:6,13 11:16 33:8         17:12            permitted 19:19     34:13 39:9        31:15,18,20 46:8,13          participate        person 5:3 19:2     40:1,1           32:11 33:13,16 Once 57:5           36:20,23,24        49:12,21,21     policymaking      34:12,19,22 one-third 33:19      37:2,14 40:5      personal 29:11      31:1            35:3 36:17,20 ones 6:12 22:14    participates         29:15 30:13     political 44:3,6      37:7,7 38:9,17 26:2,18 27:2       49:13              49:11,14 50:3    poly 46:15         40:9,10,10,15 open 6:3 9:10      participating      personally 51:16   polytheists 33:2     40:20 41:16,19 38:6 54:7          10:5 37:5         persuade 37:19     46:15           41:23 42:10 opening 19:24      particular 11:10 persuasive 26:16   population        43:11,23 44:2 29:8               27:19 30:8       petition 24:9       44:17,22         44:5,7,21 45:9 opinion 14:25        32:21 48:18,19     37:18          posed 10:2         45:16,18 46:21 16:12 17:8       particularly       Petitioner 1:4,16   position 6:22       46:22 47:22
O          oral 1:11 2:2,5,9
occasional 34:13           P           25:17 29:10,14
:18 49:13,16     28:19            proposal 11:7        47:11 52:2,9       32:14 56:14 49:20,25 50:3     present 4:8          30:4,8             52:14 54:9         57:20 50:15 51:7,12      32:10            proposals 30:13    questions 56:3     recruiting 37:25 51:13,15,16,18    presented 22:23    propose 39:5       quiet 48:2         refer 48:20 51:19,22,24        29:16            proposed 33:13    quite 16:25        references 19:20 55:15,21 56:13    pressure 24:2      proposition         25:13 28:15,17    refers 52:4 57:10 58:6,14      44:6               44:13 53:5         30:13 55:3       reflect 58:23 59:3             pressures 47:12    propriety 4:12     quote 20:21        reflected 20:19 prayer-giver       preventive         proselytize         quoted 18:5        regarded 10:25
:10 49:19
prayer-giver's
:18
priest 28:10
:14,21,23,25
regulating 59:3
:1               48:18            proselytizing       R 3:1 21:22        59:4
prayer-givers      principal 23:19      6:24 20:6,11      rabbi 28:11,18     rejected 57:24 19:21 56:13,16    principally          20:15 35:4         28:19          relate 24:21 prayers 3:12         34:10,16         prosle 27:14        raise 4:2         relative 53:18 6:11,18,20       principle 44:15     Protestant 44:17   raised 4:2 22:23    relevant 9:20 9:18,19 12:12      55:25              44:23 47:2         58:4           relief 30:5 32:2 14:15 19:20      principles 14:22    Protestants 55:2    range 56:1         38:25 39:1 20:10 21:5       private 13:24        55:22            rate-making       47:18 25:7 27:13       probably 33:9      protests 44:3        14:5           religion 13:3,6 32:13,17,17        46:17            public 7:13,14      ratified 12:9        15:3 16:25 34:8 35:10,12     problem 8:23        7:16 14:7         rational 8:9        20:1,7 27:6,9 38:22 44:14,15     17:5,8 30:24       15:19 22:13        17:14           27:15 28:12 47:1 48:1 49:2      38:18 42:10        26:6,8 29:9,18    read 6:12,21 7:2     32:6,22 38:5,7 49:16 51:2         44:9,20 51:8       29:19,20 37:17     20:22 48:9        42:6,7,7 48:19 53:7,8,11 54:7      52:23              52:8               55:14           52:17 54:4,6,8 54:19 55:15      problematic       publicize 16:12     readily 8:1         54:12 58:17 56:16              3:13             purpose 7:16       ready 5:4,5        59:2
praying 49:17      problems 54:9       20:5 34:18       really 12:14       religions 16:24 preach 27:17       procedures          42:5,9 58:18       29:21 31:5        20:23 32:24 precedence          30:19            purposes 32:10      38:20 49:7        33:22 42:22 11:20            proceeding 4:16      58:15              51:9,10 52:9      45:6 53:4,15 precedents          15:12 30:1       put 4:3 7:21        reasons 19:22     religious 16:14 12:24              37:24 38:12        29:11 39:4         43:21 44:8        16:16 18:13,16 Precisely 50:1      proceedings         40:10            REBUTTAL       24:1,18 25:7 predestination       15:9,10 38:9      putting 15:4         2:12 56:8        38:7 41:6,8 54:19            process 9:10,10      18:8             receive 34:17       44:1,12 47:2
predispositions
:25
produced 47:4
proffer 50:14             Q
recipients 15:16 recognize 4:12
:24 56:1 58:24
predominant      proffered 50:17    Quakers 55:16      22:11 25:19     religiously 45:3
:24            prohibit 51:12     question 4:8,14    recognizes 4:10    rely 4:19 predominantly     prohibited          4:24 5:8,12 6:8 recommend      remainder 19:9 44:24              36:13              7:1,19,24 8:12     42:17 48:22     remaining 56:7 preferable 43:18    promises 24:5,5      8:12,16 17:24    recommended     remanded 38:24 preferred 50:14    promptly 7:19       19:6 20:12        26:2           remedy 38:20,23 presbyters 55:19   proper 25:15,22      27:17 29:8      record 12:11,11     40:17 presence 26:21     properly 10:25       34:4 39:16        15:10 22:17,23 repeat 34:3,5
:3,4                  R        regularly 25:9
repeatedly 52:4      36:4 40:8          17:17 18:5         55:13 57:7,16     sit 21:12,14,17 reply 26:23          42:15 43:3,8       20:6 25:21,22     Senator 10:12       21:20 36:16 representative       43:11 46:2         31:5,8,8,12         57:16            site 56:14 49:9               47:15              42:22 57:25      Senators 57:8      sitting 5:3 21:25 representatives    rise 9:25 10:2,3     says 5:6 27:25      sending 12:7         36:25 43:7 34:24 40:21        21:11              28:20 30:23      sense 58:14,20       50:10 53:17            ROBERTS 3:3      37:10,11         separate 49:15     situation 5:18 Republic 57:9       9:22 10:23       Scalia 5:15,20      separated 22:17      39:20
requested 57:21      11:5 19:10         6:1 8:22 9:4,6      30:9,12 47:8      skepticism 50:12 required 17:20       29:1 31:22         12:14,19 18:11    separating 40:9    small 16:22 26:10 57:16        33:11 34:5,20      18:15,18,22      separation          21:25 45:25 requires 19:18       36:14,22 39:10     19:4 23:13,17      26:11,15 29:9     society 52:21 48:24              46:1 47:7,13       31:23 33:4         38:11,19         solemnizing reserve 19:8         50:8 56:5 59:6      34:3 35:18,23     series 14:4 20:16     22:10 reserves 47:11      Rochester 16:23     36:6 37:10       serious 41:4,6      Solicitor 1:17 resistance 50:10      16:24              40:18 45:20,24     54:2             solve 30:23,24 respect 11:22      room 5:1 21:17      46:3,8,13 49:6    seriously 20:20       44:9 13:9 22:7 26:1      21:25 24:17,19     49:24 50:2       session 3:19 7:6    somebody 18:12 26:8 27:15         43:6               51:8,18,21         7:9 8:24 21:11      18:15 30:3 49:1 54:13       rotating 38:8       scheme 43:24,25     52:8               35:6 37:11 57:13 58:2,10     rotation 43:20      school 7:4 26:22    sessions 19:24        57:21
respects 11:21       43:24,25 44:8     scope 35:17          42:11 54:7       somewhat 30:11 13:17            Rubin 18:17,24    seal 11:14,16       set 7:1 32:5 48:8    sorry 7:22 33:17 respond 24:4        19:1             seated 10:4        setting 25:16         34:3 36:1 responded 4:4      rule 4:21 22:2        37:12            show 7:16 15:10      56:20,22 Respondent's        50:21 53:7       second 19:18        51:14            sort 4:24 9:25 57:11 59:1         57:17              20:1 23:23       shows 8:7 11:24      20:2 39:14 respondents       ruled 26:14          27:16 38:24        29:11 56:15        52:1 1:21 2:11 7:12    rules 52:16          39:12,13 42:15     57:8 58:4         sorts 45:5,6
:13 15:15
:23
side 4:3 26:13
:7 43:14
Sotomayor 20:5
:9,20 21:1,9
:1 29:4         S 2:1 3:1         sectarian 12:13    sides 23:6,8        21:16,21,24 58:22            Sacramento        19:20 20:17,22   sign 4:4           50:5,8,9 56:19 responsibility        27:7 55:5        21:1,3,6,7,8     significant 10:9     56:21,23 57:1
:15            sacrifice 3:25       23:24 28:23       11:21 22:24       57:3 responsive 24:14   safe 26:3          31:13 35:4        23:11 43:1      sought 20:3 restrictions        Santa 49:23        36:12 41:18     significantly      sounded 6:11,18
:19            satisfactory        47:1 50:11,22     23:5            6:20 resurrection 4:1      39:11,12 48:10    56:18 57:6,11    silently 41:17      sounds 55:3 review 33:13         48:13,14        secular 42:12      similar 26:2       source 54:8,12
:8             save 8:25 43:6     see 18:9 43:7       47:12           54:13 reviewed 34:9      saved 51:22        45:8           simply 8:9 11:9    speak 15:20 revisit 11:13       saving 3:24       seeing 21:3        13:10 34:17     specific 29:11 right 11:1,2,3      savior 20:23        42:20          single 28:21,21      30:4 15:21 21:21        54:20          seeks 28:11        28:22 43:22     specifically 30:5 27:17 31:17      saw 43:5         selected 49:19      55:20 57:18     spectators 3:22 33:25 34:23      saying 9:25 17:7   Senate 26:21,22    sir 11:4          Spirit 21:7
:9 26:18              S        secondly 12:3
spiritual 43:14     suggest 46:9       tendency 13:5       33:2 35:3 36:4      23:11,12 25:18 spoke 15:23 16:1     58:14,19         terms 13:25          39:1,5,8,21,22      26:5,15 29:10 16:2             suggested 16:11    test 3:15 23:14       39:25 40:3,8       30:17,21 31:6 sponsored 35:15     38:21 50:25        23:16,17 27:5      40:16 43:20        31:11,13 34:8 squared 19:23       52:19              27:5,12 28:5       44:10 45:22        34:21 37:22,23 squarely 15:4      suggests 40:7,8       33:24 35:24        46:6,11 48:5       38:2,3,4,10 stand 3:23 10:10     57:20              36:7,8,10,15       49:12,13 52:13     39:8,25 40:3 10:13,14,16      suit 56:24           50:14,16,17        52:14,15,24,25     40:21 41:24 22:5 35:21       supervised         testified 10:12       53:6,22 55:23      42:25 47:25 37:2,15 44:5       42:20            testify 5:5,17        58:3,21            49:4 52:8 47:18 57:18,21    supervisor 18:5      8:21             thinks 52:16         53:13 56:14 58:6             support 5:5        testimony 5:5      third 23:25        town's 16:7 17:4
standard 50:25     supporting 1:19      37:3               32:13 43:3         18:2 50:25              2:8 19:15         Texas 55:5         THOMAS 1:15    tradition 4:19 standing 15:15     suppose 3:18       Thank 3:9 19:10     2:3,13 3:7 56:8     22:10 25:18 started 23:3         4:23 6:10 19:4      28:25 29:1       thoroughly          32:7 34:11 starts 22:19          53:12              56:5,10 59:5,6      16:13              41:23,25 42:13 37:23            supposed 24:13    theologian 50:19   thought 47:8        44:11 45:18 state 9:15 13:22      34:6,7           theological 59:4    thoughts 48:16       46:22 54:14 22:11 26:24      Supreme 1:1,12    theories 58:22      threaten 27:18       58:5,8,23 27:7 30:18         14:5               59:1             threats 44:4        traditions 53:19 34:23 51:1       sure 25:16 28:15    theory 39:19       three 7:7 23:20       58:23 55:10 58:11        28:17 46:17      thing 5:6 12:21      57:20            traffic 30:24 statements 4:24      47:25              16:11 29:22,23    Throw 31:23       treat 45:14,15 States 1:1,12,19    surprising 13:21     31:10 40:6       time 8:17 9:20       45:17 2:7 8:25 12:8     SUSAN 1:6          41:7 43:16         11:3,7 12:7       treated 45:7 14:15 19:14      susceptible 24:1    things 10:21,25      17:12 19:9       tried 10:15 40:9 43:6         switch 23:6,8        24:16 25:21        22:17 29:9         39:14 48:24            syndrome 29:15      26:1,6,7,19         30:10,12 35:13    trouble 26:19 stay 10:3 40:2        37:16              29:11 35:21        38:11,20 40:9      43:19 stayed 55:1        systematic 37:24     38:13 40:14        46:24 49:21      troubles 24:12
stays 37:12
think 3:18 4:7
:22 55:1,16 57:18
 true 33:1 46:15
:15 53:1
stood 4:4          T 2:1,1           5:7 6:25 8:4     times 57:20        57:14 streets 47:5        table 5:4          9:11 10:8       today 11:7,16     trust 11:2,8 strength 4:1        take 11:14 32:1     11:19 12:24       12:21 27:9      truth 44:12 strikes 24:20         42:3            14:7 17:2,19      42:21 43:11     truthfully 21:18 strongest 26:12     talk 21:9 37:8       20:18 21:14,16    56:2 57:10      try 7:12 17:25 structure 38:8       55:18           21:17,19,20,22   told 10:2,3 46:23    42:17,18 43:10 subject 47:11,14    talking 14:1,11      21:24 22:4,14    tolerance 58:24     47:22 47:19              21:17 39:11,17    22:16,23,24     top 35:3         trying 37:19 submit 20:17        42:5            23:2,4,8,10,18    totality 39:15       52:20 submitted 59:7     tangible 36:23      23:19,20 24:7    town 1:3 3:4 7:4   turn 4:3 59:9             task 35:16 41:4     24:24 25:14       7:11 13:12      twice 47:10 subtle 47:14        team 24:18        26:3,9,10,17      14:2 15:11      two 6:24 11:20 suddenly 11:6      tell 37:18 39:1      27:2,11,15        16:22 17:11       13:16 16:1 sufficient 53:20      40:4 47:21        28:14,19 32:9     18:4 22:8 23:3     19:22 40:16
stifle 41:13                T         52:23 53:20
:22 53:13,20
 varying 36:19
 41:18 46:1,5
Y
 34:23
two-thirds 33:19 vast 46:9 type 4:13 22:22 vastly 48:12 types 22:21 vehement 16:7 typically 37:6 view 11:8 22:8
:3
U
ultimately 51:5 unanimity 33:25 unconstitutio...
:20 38:16 57:11
undergird 14:23
understand 6:23 violence 47:4
:24 12:14 14:7 46:16
understanding
:21 55:12
understood 8:17 W
:2 wake 29:16
undertake 41:4 walking 43:5 undertaking want 7:17 17:18 49:8 28:6 30:4,5,6 undoubtedly 35:13 37:12
:4 41:17 43:6 unfamiliar 44:2 44:4 45:20
unhappy 52:17 46:24 47:19,24 United 1:1,12,18 wary 23:24 2:7 8:25 19:14 Washington 1:8 43:6 48:23 1:15,18 55:4
:20 47:7 web 56:14
website 16:22
:8
Wednesday 1:9 week 35:5
Weisman 47:10 welcome 16:15 weren't 10:2
What/why 7:20 Wiccan 6:14
Wiccans 31:20 wider 56:1
Wilkinson's
:11
willing 10:7 win 43:7
wisdom 18:21 wonder 10:23
:14
wondering 3:17 word 12:13 18:9
:21
words 11:9 35:9
:11 53:16
work 17:1 38:25 42:23,23 43:21 workable 53:7 works 38:20
Yeah 46:3
year 6:12 56:21
:1
years 6:7,11
:17 25:2 46:21
York 1:3 55:14 6
 1:9
Z
:00 22:19
zoning 7:4 13:13 6:30 22:21
:32 22:21
 21:5 42:21
 7
 46:14
 42:21
a 33:16,21 11 6:11 56:17 11:04 59:8 1120 22:18
-696 1:4 3:4 9
 57:21
 33:16 56:17 15 21:4
 6:7 9:17 17 57:8
 11:15 19 2:8
th 47:3
universe 45:19 unquestionably
:14
upside 42:19 usable 29:14
use 27:20 37:17
:4
utilities 7:5 utility 14:4
V
v 1:5 3:5 47:10 variance 30:6
variances 38:13 various 6:3 13:18 52:18
vary 6:13
wasn't 16:21 way 3:13 11:9
:18 22:7
:13 36:23 37:25 41:17 43:17 46:25 47:15 52:22 55:3,9,19 ways 43:18 47:16 52:18
We'll 3:3
we're 11:12,13
:24 20:18
:6 31:8,8,12 40:23 45:21 we've 14:18 38:20 39:14
world 20:23
:19
worse 52:23
:6
worship 17:16
:6 38:2,3
worshippers
:5,7
wouldn't 6:23 11:5 22:4 36:3 48:4 55:17 write 53:24 writing 12:7
X
x 1:2,7
 46:21
-year 34:11 2003 33:17 2007 17:22 2008 56:13 2009 56:16 2013 1:9 22 25:14 24 25:14 240 25:2 29 2:11
 2:4 56:7 30 7:15
views 58:7,24
violate 36:3
:15 58:9
violates 39:20
violation 7:20
:21 8:2 10:22
:7 34:14
Virginia 1:20
visible 37:6
visibly 47:21
 21:4
 2:14
 56:16
:04 1:13 3:2
 57:8
 22:18
 44:23
-1/2 44:17
